Date: Mon May 28 11:40:28 2012
Subject: Debian on the Samsung Series 9 NP900X3B

There are other guides to getting Linux going on the Samsung Series 9
NP900X3B, but both that I've found are for Fedora.  Mostly it's the
same in Debian, but here are some of the things I've spotted.

h2. Install media

Recent versions of Debian install media images are created as hybrid
ISO images, which means you can download them and dd them directly to
a USB stick.  This is what I did, with the Squeeze netinst image. The
computer's BIOS settings needed changing to look at USB before the
internal SSD, but that's not hard.  I deselected all packages which
resulted in a very minimal basic install, then added @xfce4@ and a few
essential utilities using @apt-get@

h2. Networking

The wired network works out of the box.

The wireless networking is courtesy of an Intel 6230 adapter 
"@Intel Corporation Centrino Advanced-N 6230 [8086:0091] (rev 34)@"
(apparently this also does Bluetooth, but I haven't tried that
yet).  This is _not_ supported in Squeeze's default kernel, but is
available in Wheezy.  After much swearing at backports I decided to
do the @apt-get upgrade@ dance

h2. Touchpad

Touchpad handling worked in Squeeze and partially broke when I
upgraded to get working wifi.  Pointer movement worked fine, but
tapping (for the uninitiated, "tapping" on the touchpad is simulating
button presses by briefly touching the pressure-sensitive area instead
of the hardware buttons below it) didn't.  On this system tapping is
infinitely preferable to the hardware buttons, because it appears
impossible to move the pointer while one of the hardware buttons is
pressed - this makes window placement pretty tricky.  The fix here is

<pre>synclient TapButton1=1 
synclient TapButton2=2 
synclient TapButton2=3 
synclient PalmDetect=1
</pre>

which means you can use one finger to simulate button 1, two fingers
simultaneously (note: not double-clicking, as I foolishly initially
thought) to simulate button 2, and three for button 3.  It also turns
on palm detection, so that accidentally brushing the pad as you type
won't send your cursor off into the wild blue yonder.

This affect the current session only.  To make it permanent you need to
edit files: copy
@/usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/50-synaptics.conf@ to
@/etc/X11/xorg.conf.d@ and add the lines

<pre>
        Option "TapButton1" "1"
        Option "TapButton2" "2"
        Option "TapButton3" "3"
        Option "PalmDetect" "1"
</pre>

in the first @Section "InputClass"@ stanza

h2. Suspend and hibernate

I had the same problem with suspend as 
"John Teslade":http://jtes.net/2012/03/23/samsung-series-9-2012-np900x3b/ :
it appears not to resume but in fact it works perfectly except for the
display backlight.  However, I had it harder because my Fn-F2 and
Fn-F3 keys didn't do anything.  After determining with @acpi_listen@
that Linux is listening to those keys (they send ACPI events
@video/brightnessdown@ and @video/brightnessup@ respectively) and is
capable of controlling the brightness (try e.g. @xrandr --output eDP1
--set BACKLIGHT 1@) I decided this must clearly be a 90% solved
problem and that the missing link was probably somewhere in the Debian
package archive.  It was, it was @xfce4-power-manager@

After that, suspend and hibernate are both usable.

h2.  Battery life

Pretty poor right now (looks like about 3 hours), but I've just
installed @laptop-mode-tools@ which has turned most of the PowerTOP
tunables from "Bad" to "Good", so I will be disappointed if that
doesn't make a significant difference.  We'll see ...
