subject: Pluto
date: Mon Sep 26 21:19:16 2011

My "previous entry":/social-notworking was not just a retro whinge
about today's centralised and balkanised Internet, but also a run up
to a description of how things could be different.  My efforts on and
off over the last few weeks to make that difference have recently been
blocked by too-much-$DAYJOB, so maybe this is a good time to stop
coding and talk about it a bit.

When I was first playing around with the idea of a "distributed social
network":http://ww.telent.net/2011/3/2/the_neighbour_net_proxy_protocol
my focus was on duplicating the interesting bits of Facebook, and one
of the reasons I concluded it wasn't really ever worth pursuing
was that Facebook already exists and nobody (to a first approximation)
needs an empty duplicate of it.  If you want a network where you can
tell your friends what you had for breakfast and post cat videos, you
want it to be the network that your friends are on.

But in the course of thinking about how to implement it and reading
about "Atompub":http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5023b , I realised that
it showed the way to something subtly different.  And when I thought
about that a bit more I realised I'd reinvented the blog aggregator.
Um.  But this is the _threaded_ blog aggregator, which is better.

h2. The Embrace

Well, the logic is unassailable: there are already lots of people on
the internet publishing their thoughts using Atom (or its gelatinous
structural isomorph RSS): what we need is an app that sucks all their
posts, sorts them into categories (which we are calling "channels"),
and allows the user to post his own articles (either _ab initio_ or in
reply to those they read) into the same channels.  You can notify the
people you're replying to by sending them a copy of your reply (as
Atom POST to their published feed url, falling back to
"Trackback":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trackback or
"Pingback":http://www.hixie.ch/specs/pingback/pingback or
"Slingback"://www.elegantfootwear.co.uk/slingback_shoes.html or
"Stickleback":http://www.amazon.co.uk/Stickle-Bricks-Sticklebricks-Giant-Set/dp/B004F77ZPM/ref=sr_1_11?ie=UTF8&qid=1317245237&sr=8-11
or whatever if that doesn't work), and you can incorporate their
replies to your articles in the same way when they come in.  Stick a
UI on the front that presents a trn-style threaded view of all unread
articles by all authors in the channel, et viola, you've just created
a conversational view of stuff that's out there already.  And by and
large it's much _better_ stuff than "paste this as your status and tag
three people".

h2. The Extension

How do we turn that into a distributed resilient blah system like Usenet?

The key bit of
"NNPP":http://ww.telent.net/2011/3/2/the_neighbour_net_proxy_protocol
was that each node answers proxy requests on behalf of its neighbours,
for articles it's loaded from its neighbours.  So, if one of your
usual feed sources is offline, you can fetch their articles from
someone else who reads them.  Combine that with
"PubSubHubbub":http://code.google.com/apis/pubsubhubbub/ and add some
yet-to-be-decided peer-to-peer negotiation protocol so that a group of
nodes can decide between themselves which will be the hub and which
will subscribe to it.

This does make the issue of identity a bit more pressing: what's to
stop node B altering articles published by A, or even introducing
entirely new ones that purport to come from A?  Crypto, that's what.
I don't give a stuff whether the name you go by is what your
government calls you, but I do want to know whether, when someone with
your moniker is claiming to have written article _N_, it is the same
someone who prevously wrote articles _1,2,3,... N-1_.  So, you
get a "PGP":http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4880 key (or some other asymmetric peer-to-peer public-key
encryption system that doesn't depend on a centralised certification
authority).  Then if the key associated with your feed changes without
prior notification, my client shows me a big red warning that says you
probably aren't who you say you are.  Perhaps once you've been posting
stuff I like for a while I'll sign your key as well, and other people
- at least, other people who like what _I_ post - will be more likely
to trust you as a result.

(NNPP also contains an outline sketch of a DNS protocol replacement.  I
presently think this is an optional extra, but that depends on how
offensive you plan to be to deep-pocket corporates who will complain
to your naming authority)

Spam?  No magic solutions, I'm afraid, but the "trusted introducer"
thing goes some way.  If people that you don't already read send you
articles that aren't signed by keys you have a trust relationship
with, they pile up in your "slush pile" (the analogue of the G+
Incoming feed) until you decide to look at them - you might decide to
apply spam filtering tools of the same kind as we use for email, or
you might just decide to junk it sight unread.


h2. The End

It's called Pluto.  Because Planet is "a feed aggregator application
designed to collect posts from the weblogs of members of an Internet
community and display them on a single page" (thank you, Wikipedia)
and Pluto is a dwarf planet.  Sometime soon, I hope, there will be
code on Github.

Catchy summary points:

* we care about *content and conversation* - I'm happy to let Facebook
  and Twitter corner the market in ephemera: this is for keepers

* *protocols not platforms* - we interoperate on equal terms with
  anything that speaks Atompub (and intend to provide adaptors for RSS
  or Facebook or scraped content or even an email-to-pluto gateway) -
  all the other authentication and distribution stuff is strictly
  opt-in

