title: I did it my way
date: Sun May  1 11:50:35 2011

tweet. telent_net 63709899460321280 short unoriginal observation on ruby blogging engines: quicker to write your own than evaluate all the other poorly documented ones

tweet. telent_net 63710033904549888 ... this observation only holds if you skimp on the documentation of course. which is where we came in

If you can see this, you can see my blog design all changed again.
This time it's a Ruby "Sinatra":http://www.sinatrarb.com/ application
(whence the name "my-way":https://github.com/telent/my-way) running on
"thin-prefork":https://github.com/telent/thin-prefork, which keeps the article texts in git and uses RedCloth
plus some ugly regexps to turn them into HTML.  The Markdown vs
Textile decision is not an especially interesting one in the first
place, but gets a lot easier still when you have something like 9
years worth of previous articles in Textile format.

Publishing is achieved by pushing to a git repository on the live
machine (a "Bytemark":http://www.bytemark.co.uk vm).  A post-update
hook in the remote repository is responsible for checking out the
updated commit (git doesn't like pushing to non-bare repositories) and
sending @SIGHUP@ to the running instance of my-way which causes it to
reindex files.

<pre>
dan@bytemark:~$ cat /home/git/my-way.git/hooks/post-update        
#!/bin/sh
GIT_WORK_TREE=/home/dan/src/git/my-way git checkout -f
kill -1 `cat /tmp/my-way.pid`
</pre>

The version of my-way on github lags the actual version slightly,
because I need to separate the engine from the articles and from the
config data (there are things like adsense subscriber id, flickr api
keys, etc) before I push the latter to a public service.  Will clean it
up in the next few days.

And my apologies to RSS feed subscribers.  I've finally dropped the
@/diary@ prefix on the URL for this blog, and the old RSS feed didn't
use GUIDs and I'm too lazy to make the new one do so either, so the
upshot is you just got the ten most recent articles in your feed
again.  Sorry. 
