title: Today (Friday) was cold
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Sat, 24 Nov 2001 2:12:5 +0000


<p> Today (Friday) was cold.  In fact, it still is - I have four
computers turned on in this roughly single-bedroom-sized room and I'm
still having to wear a jumper.  I could maybe turn the Mac back on.

<p> I know it's cold because I spent half an hour this evening
standing outside Milton Keynes Central railway station waiting for a
bus.  Still, an hour each way by coach beats the train journey I've
been doing for most of the last three weeks.

<p>An hour this evening playing with the guitar.  My neighbours must
love me.  I <i>think</i> I'm actually getting better at it, though I
have no doubt that an objective observer would still
be pretty rude.

<p>Three hours reading the Alpha arch ref manual to find out whether
atomic_dec_and_set is a sensible thing to want to do, and if so, a
possible thing to do.  Seems kind of plausible so far.

<p>For some reason I seem to be getting a lot of mail lately from
orinoco_plx users (including some from people for whom it actually
works, which is tremendously gratifying, because it never actually did
for me in any useful way).  Perhaps it recently got merged into a
-linus kernel, or something.  orinoco_plx is for Linux users
unfortunate enough to want/need to use PLX9052-based PCI/PCMCIA
adaptors with PrismII wireless lan cards - e.g. the Netgear MA301.  My
advice to any such people still in a position to do so remains "go
back to the shop and trade it in for something that actually works".
Especially if you want to do ad-hoc; prismii cards seem to have ad-hoc
problems.

<p>Either my laptop is developing hardware problems, or my local
Debian mirror is corrupting packages on the fly as it serves them to
me.  Neither situation is desirable, really.

