title: End-of-day roundup
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Tue, 20 Nov 2001 23:56:54 +0000

<p> End-of-day roundup

<p> I'd not seen Easy Rider before last night, when Channel 4 showed
it on TV.  

<ul>
<li> <p>The bikes looked physically impossible to ride - that incredible
fork rake?  Actually, I remember reading a magazine article last year
or so, which indicated that they more or less <i>were</i> impossible to ride.
So fair enough.

<li> <p>Great soundtrack.  Nice photography.

<li> <p>Clearly it was intended to be deep.  I, however, am shallow (or
at any rate lazy, which amounts to much the same thing), and therefore
will not be tackling the complicated stuff in this diary.  "If you
want to send a message, call Western Union".  
<p>Google has 10 pages of
matches for "sam+goldwyn+message+western+union"; if you know the
actual quotation, I'd be most interested

<li> <p>The ending disturbed me.  Actually, most of the last third
disturbed me.

</li>
</ul>

<p> Today was driving lesson day, and I think probably the first time
I actually got the car up to 70mph.  There's not much else I want to
say on that subject.

<p> Started a <a
href="http://groups.google.com/groups?frame=right&th=25a0b644d80ed777&seekm=87bshyns0c.fsf%40inanna.rimspace.net"
>thread</a> on comp.lang.lisp about what happens to the language's
ordering guarantees in the presence of multiple threads.  Consensus
seems to be that they don't apply (which is half of the answer I was
hoping for) but no real useful information on what the application
programmer can typically do about that.  Disabling pre-emption for the
critical section is not a particularly good answer in my mind.  I
remain convinced that CL can often be written to be close enough to
the machine that programs can do most of what C programmers do - it
doesn't end up as portable CL, but it's not portable C either - it's
just that if the accumulated output of comp.lang.lisp describes the
Common Lisp community, they really don't seem to be too too interested
in that stuff.  Which is a reasonable choice to make, of course, but
not the only rational choice.  Once upon a time there must have been
lisp programmers who were interested in the low-level grunge, or we
wouldn't have had OSes written in the language.

<p> I see more name registration antics in the near future, as
telent.net will be up for renewal early next month.  register.com are
incorrigible spammers to whom I'm not intending to give any more
business than I can help.  Let's see if I can transfer to <a
href="http://www.joker.com/" >Joker</a>.

<p> And so to bed.

