title: OK, let's review a little
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Sat, 5 Jan 2002 13:1:58 +0000

<p> OK, let's review a little.

<p> I recently got reacquainted with <b>db-sockets</b>, while looking
for a file descriptor leak in on of my <a
href="http://araneida.telent.net/" >araneida</a>-using sites.  It's
not actually as bad as I remember it.  Upcoming new version will have
<ul>
<li> Support for unix-domain sockets
<li> Deprecated <tt>make-inet-socket</tt> in favour of 
<tt>(make-instance 'inet-socket)</tt>,
which should make it easier to subclass the socket classes
<li> Substantially changed the alien glue around so that things like 
sockaddrs are actually allocated as Lisp vectors instead of foreign
memory.  This might potentially be a little faster, as it doesn't
involve jumping through the ffi hoops to allocate them; it's almost certainly
a little more reliable as Lisp arrays will get GCed
<li> probably fixed a file descriptor leak.  At least, I rewrote the
finalizers to be simple enough that I understand them, and I can't
actually make it leak on demand.  So, that may help.
</li>
</ul>
<p> New release soon when I've removed the icky bits which assume
foreign pointers can be represented in 32 bit.  I'm pondering making
it use asdf for defsystem instead of mk-, but I don't know yet.

<p><b>Araneida</b> got some updates too, though nothing you'd actually
notice unless you have lots of traffic and particularly slow response
handlers.  

<p>No news on <b>SBCL</b> recently; I've been dealing with too much
administrivia lately to get really involved with it.  I think the
answer for closures might be to punt all the PPC-specific stuff and 
make them work exactly as the Alpha does.

<p>There was a <b>power cut</b> here last night, two seconds after Inspector
Morse pegged it.  
<blockquote>
<p>"Thank Lewis for me"
<p>death rattle
<p>beeeeeeeeeep
<p>click.  fizz.  dark.  descending-pitch whirring noises from upstairs. 
</p></blockquote>

<p>The house is so much quieter with no electricity.  And, yes, darker.

<p>After the usual routine checks (is nextdoor out as well, where is
my torch, is it the circuit breakers, is it the meter, what
<i>exactly</i> does the central heating boiler do in these
circumstances) (yes, in the shed, no, no, pilot light remains lit but
let's turn the central heating off for the duration just in case) I
found the phone number for the electricity distribution company
(thanks to the slightly odd way that the electricity system runs in
the UK, that is not the same company as actually bills me for using
the stuff) and called them.  A substantial proportion of the
neighborhood had apparently already done so; seems that the fuse on
one of the phases had gone.  Power came back an hour or so later,
briefly, causing me to leap out of bed, run downstairs, turn the
lights off and stop the cd player.  Power came back again some time
after that, causing me to leap out of bed, run downstairs (in the
dark, this time) and <i>turn the cd player off altogether</i>.

<p>Since yesterday I've had a headache, sore throat and general aches.
I'm assuming it is a <b>cold</b>.  So, at least I got an early night
last night.

