title: 
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Fri, 16 Nov 2001 9:50:30 +0000



<p> This is not a blog(sic).  There's a whole weblogging culture out
there (if `culture' is not too strong a word for it), which is nothing
to do with this diary.  You will not find a URL with every entry,
gratuitous use of CSS, all-lowercase entries or XSLT.

<p> There are several arguments I could make for keeping a diary on my
own site instead of using the Advogato one.  The actual reason,
though, is that Advogato is just too big these days; when there were
fewer people there the non-software-related entries were interesting,
but there are too many people posting them now to get worked up about.

<a name="oracle"> </a>
<p> I'm on a train.  This is another reason for not using the
Advodiary, actually: emacs and rsync is a much friendlier interface
than html forms, and makes it easier to write offline.  I'm on a train
to Sunbury, where I am going to install exciting new features in an
aging Perl/Oracle/Java web application, about which client
confidentiality would prevent me from giving more details, were
self-preservation instincts not doing a perfectly good job of that
already.  The problem here is that <a
href="http://www.google.com/">Google</a> likes me enough that any
comment I write along the lines of 

<blockquote>"The Oracle 8i graphical installer sucks so much and so
hard that we suspect it was actually repurposed from its original use
dividing the waters under the firmament from the waters above the
firmament" </blockquote> 

will inevitably turn up when some potential customer googles "daniel
barlow oracle" in two years time.  This would obviously be Bad if I
were to write anything that's actually controversial - happily, in
that particular case the only dissenting voices are going to be the
faction who claim that the installer doesn't suck, it just blows.
&lt;question type="rhetorical" answer="sparingly"&gt;What were they
<i>thinking</i>&lt;/question&gt;

<hr>
<address> <a href="/index.html">Daniel Barlow</a></address>
<font size=1>
Local Variables:  <br>
eval: (local-set-key [f11] (lambda () (interactive nil) (insert "<" "h2>" (current-time-string) "<" "/h2>\n<" "p> ")))  <br>
End: <br>
</font></body> </html>
