title: On the advice of some people on IRC (sure, yeah, I do everything
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Fri, 14 Dec 2001 12:28:44 +0000


<p> On the advice of some people on IRC (sure, yeah, I do everything
they tell me to.  Except when it conflicts with the instructions of my
toaster) I recently installed <a href="http://spamassassin.taint.org/"
>spamassassin</a> (there's a Debian package in unstable).  It has a
point scoring system with a whole slew of "looks like spam" rules,
then tags the spam with a special header so that I can filter it
accordingly

<pre>
SPAM: -------------------- Start SpamAssassin results ----------------------
SPAM: This mail is probably spam.  The original message has been altered
SPAM: so you can recognise or block similar unwanted mail in future, using
SPAM: the built-in mail filtering support in your mail reader.
SPAM: 
SPAM: Content analysis details:   (31.2 hits, 5 required)
SPAM: Hit! (0.1 points)  Subject: contains a question mark
SPAM: Hit! (2 points)    From: does not include a real name
SPAM: Hit! (3 points)    Forged From: line claiming to be from hotmail.com
SPAM: Hit! (2 points)    Invalid Date: header (no timezone)
SPAM: Hit! (1.6 points)  From: ends in numbers
SPAM: Hit! (2 points)    BODY: /GUARANTEE/
SPAM: Hit! (1.9 points)  BODY: /opt-in/i
SPAM: Hit! (2 points)    BODY: /(?:wish to|click to|To) remove yourself/
SPAM: Hit! (3.9 points)  BODY: /subject.*remove/i
SPAM: Hit! (2 points)    BODY: /mailto:\S+\?subject=[3D=\s"']*remove/is
SPAM: Hit! (2 points)    BODY: /\n\n.*mailto:\S+\?subject=/is
SPAM: Hit! (3 points)    Listed in Razor, see http://razor.sourceforge.net/
SPAM: Hit! (2 points)    Received via a relay in relays.ordb.org
SPAM:                    [RBL check: found relay 48.19.93.203.relays.ordb.org.]
SPAM: Hit! (3.7 points)  Subject contains a unique ID number
SPAM: 
SPAM: -------------------- End of SpamAssassin results ---------------------
</pre>

<p> Well, yes.  There are very few reasons to <i>pretend</i> to be
from Hotmail.

