title: Back on the train, gang
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Fri, 16 Nov 2001 19:12:32 +0000

<p> Back on the train, gang

<p> The other day I had a look at <a href="/lisp/sockets.html"
>db-sockets</a> again.  This is a fairly low-level interface to BSD sockets
for <a href="http://sbcl.sourceforge.net/">SBCL</a> that I started
about two years ago and then never really revisited - I wrote a couple
of other things layered on top of it (Araneida and CLiki) but only the
bits of socket implementation than I actually needed ever happened.
And nobody else (that I know of) ever used it either - probably either
because they wanted something more abstract, or because they wanted
something CMUCL-compatible (or indeed both).

<p>Writing db-sockets the first time around convinced me that Unix
APIs are pretty damn sucky in places.  I'd mostly forgotten about
this, but it's starting to come back to me now.  The other thing I
hadn't realised at the time, though, is just how sucky db-sockets also
is.  Was.  Whichever.  Garbage collecting
objects-which-represent-file-descriptors is so horribly the wrong
thing that I don't want to think about it.

<p>New db-sockets will probably be even more low-level.  It will deal
in file descriptors, will use Lisp memory for the sockaddr and other
structures lying around the place, will have suitable macrology for
managing fds so that we don't leave them lying around open until the
next time the user happens to GC, and will, we hope, be a sensible
target to port net.sbcl.sockets to, so that people who want
cmucl-compatible stuff can have it as well without feeling they're
getting two of everything.  <i>Then</i> I will sort out Araneida, and
<i>then</i> I will fix CLiki.  And hopefully someone will package CLX
for SBCL so that - actually, I'm not sure it would be so cool for that
to happen because then I'd probably start hacking on <a
href="/cliki/Eclipse" >Eclipse</a> again.  And that's a time sink.

<pre>
** WARNING **: GConf error:
  Object Activation Framework error:
 OAF problem description: 'Nothing matched the requirements.'
</pre>

<p>Repeat x20.  I love gnome error messages too

<p>Right.

