title: Two days later, and I'm still using emacs 21, which is longer than
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Tue, 27 Nov 2001 0:37:12 +0000


<p> Two days later, and I'm still using emacs 21, which is longer than
I've managed to stand it for on any previous occasion.  It might be a
goer this time.  Additional fluff for the .emacs:
<tt>(custom-set-variables '(smiley-regexp-alist nil))</tt>

<p>Sunday was a do-nothing day, so not worth diarizing about.  That
you get no diary entry for it has less to do with any such concept of
value than it does that the day was punctuated by a bottle of wine and
the Channel 4 "100 best films" program.  Monday, post-hangover,
involved a driving lesson, a timesheet (one step closer to invoicing),
a weird Solaris problem, more Alpha assembly and several hours with a
guitar and the tablature (courtesy of OLGA) for <a href=
"http://www.olga.net/dynamic/browse.php?printer=0&local=main/q/queen/white_queen.tab"
>White Queen</a>.  I feel quite unreasonably positive about life just
now, which is an improvement on Sunday.

<p>More on last Saturday's work - how to install Debian using a <a
name="debian-pxe">PXE boot</a><a href="#debian-pxe">&raquo</a> .  It
turns out to be quite easy if you have another local machine that can
do tftp and bootp service.  Almost all the work is done on the server
<ol>

<li> Install tftp-hpa

<li> Install and configure dhcpd.   In the clause that describes your 
clients (<tt>subnet</tt>, <tt>host</tt>, <tt>group</tt>, whatever) you
need to say <tt>filename "/var/tftp/pxelinux.0";</tt>

<li> Get the debian rescue image, loopback mount it, copy the files
into /var/tftp

<li> Copy /usr/lib/syslinux/pxelinux.0 into /var/tftp

<li> Copy syslinux.cfg into /var/tftp/pxelinux.cfg/default

<li> gunzip root.bin, loopback mount it, copy an appropriate ethernet
driver onto it, umount, zip it up again

<li> Restart whatever services you just edited the config files for.

<li> Boot the client.  It should come up with the normal Debian
bootstrap thing.

<li> Before you can install kernel + modules, change to the shell
(Alt+F2) and insmod your network driver

<lI> When you're ready, proceed at your own pace to an installed
Debian box

</li>
</ol>

<p>Handy if you have a laptop like mine (no CDROM, floppy is USB and
only emulates a legacy floppy at BIOS level, so Linux doesn't see it)

<p>Sorted a bunch of orinoco_plx mail, sent off a new version to David
Gibson.  No exciting changes, just more PCI IDs that people keep
sending me.

