title: Last Monday (i.e two days following the previous entry here) I had
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Wed, 20 Feb 2002 11:21:25 +0000


<p> Last Monday (i.e two days following the previous entry here) I had
a sufficiently unpleasant experience trying to port a package with a
homebrew system definition utility that I vowed to finish <a
href="/cliki/asdf" >asdf</a> - or at least, to get it to the point
where it actually does anything useful.  A week and a bit later, and
here we almost are.  It has a (minimal) test suite and everything.
Look also at my proposed <a href="/cliki/ASDF+System" >ASDF System</a>
standard, which I'm trying to get the <a href="/cliki/cCLan"
>cCLan</a> guys to adopt for the next version of cCLan.  It uses tar
files!  It's not Debian-specific!  It's really good!

<p> The only real system it's been tried with is db-sockets, which is
probably not the simplest system ever to have started with (foreign
objects and some weird pre-processing needed).  But it appears that
pretty much everything I've written in CL that actually <i>works</i>
requires db-sockets, so there wasn't a lot of option.

<p> What else?  Not a lot.  Christophe got SPARC SBCL working and Bill
Newman got it merged, so I'm lagging there as PPC is still
0.6.13-based and still has whatever that odd build problem was.  
Also haven't sent patches for the Alpha fp fixes yet.  If anyone
other than me is actually using SBCL on an Alpha, this would be a good
time for him/her to apply peer pressure.

<p> Oh, and Araneida in fact <i>didn't</i> have a file descriptor
leak.  The leak in that application turned out to be in the cheesy SMTP
client code it also uses.  Yay.  Don't need to restart that every
three weeks any more, then.

