title: On Monday I went to the 
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Wed, 1 May 2002 1:39:37 +0000


<p> On Monday I went to the <a
href="http://acmbc.soi.city.ac.uk/events/20020429EUCD/notice.htm" >
Campaign for Digital Rights Miniconference</a> on the European
Copyright Directive.  If you live in the UK and ever read books, or
listen to records, or use software, you should probably be concerned.
A lot of people are reasonably concerned about the effects of digital
copying on their industries, but legislating that it's illegal to
break the copy protection (even when you have a legitimate use, like
needing to transfer software to your new computer, or lending books
from a library, or ...) is not the Right Answer.  The software
industry shelved copy protection a decade ago because users didn't
like it; do we <i>have</i> to go through the same thing again?

<P> Before the conference, 5pm tube travel reminded me quite
sharply why I moved out of London.

<p>After the conference, beer.  After beer, pizza.  After pizza, bus
back from Islington to central London, and coach back to Oxford,
arriving around 3am.

<p> Today, new <a href="/cliki/asdf">asdf</a> version.  Actually
mostly done on the coach down to London yesterday.  Also registered
for the <a href="http://www.ukuug.org/events/linux2002/" >UKUUG Linux
Developers' Conference</a>.  If you haven't already done likewise, you
just missed the early rate. <i>Update: uh, no you didn't.  I was
confused with OLS: the UKUUG early rate runs for another month yet.</i>


