title: Stand back world, I am going to buy a proper guitar
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Sun, 20 Jan 2002 20:35:30 +0000


<p> Stand back world, I am going to buy a proper guitar.  Went to the
<a href="http://www.oxfordguitargallery.com">guitar shop</a> (caution:
web site consists entirely of a flash object and isn't actually all
that useful anyway) on Friday, played for half an hour with a suitable
slab of wood.  Red, round at one end, pointy at the other, bits of
wire running from one end to the other.  (More precisely: made by
Tokai, looks like a 1950s Strat).  That was fun.  This week I go back
and hand over actual money.

<p> On Saturday I went to see the Oxford University <a
href="http://www.oum.ox.ac.uk/">Museum of Natural History</a> and the
<a href="http://units.ox.ac.uk/departments/prm/" >Pitt Rivers
Museum</a> with Simon and Judith (who subsequently found this diary
and has advised me that she will be annoyed if she can't find any
references to her in it.  Google being what it is, I don't usually
like mentioning names of people with no net presence, but on
re-reading this I find that I have already anyway, so there).

<p>The Pitt Rivers Museum is definitely recommended if you're in
Oxford.  It retains the original layout that it had in Victorian times
- exhibits are sorted by type or purpose rather than by region or
period - the display cases are crowded, and a lot of the exhibits are
really pretty random.  All with neat little hand-written tags
describing what they are, where they came from, who donated them, etc.
Usually museums give me that sinking "too much information; I am not
going to remember anything I've seen here" feeling, but the Pitt
Rivers is great because there is just so much on display that nobody
could be <i>expected</i> to remember anything.  Liberating, yes

<p> Dinner at Judith's: conversation, cheese, leek, ham, conversation,
chicken, rice, veggies, wine, conversation, cheese, conversation,
chocolate, coffee.  I don't eat much (actually, I don't say much
either when there are other people carrying the conversation) but I do
enjoy a good dinner.  Right.

<p>Then back here to stare at SBCL again.  After tracing through more
type system innards than I really wanted to know about, I see that it
all hinges on a call to <tt>(%instance-ref structure (dsd-index
dsd))</tt> which of course we all know has been <a
href="/sbcl-internals/PPC" >broken for months</a>.  Having realised
that, went to bed at 5am ish.  

<p> Spent most of today idly speculating about designing my own
accounts software, as GnuCash has a slew of features I don't need and
is missing a bunch of others (support for VAT; hooks into my invoicing
system; a real database for the data so I can have more confidence
that it'll still be there in six years).  It looks like a Simple
Matter Of Programming: a real sql database to keep the splits in, and
some handy functions using usql for posting transactions.  Stopped
before I actually got as far as writing code, though, and applied
Christophe's %instance-ref fix for the SPARC to see if the PPC can
work the same way. Rebuilding now to see what effect it has.


