title: Completely b0rked, yup
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Wed, 6 Feb 2002 2:17:57 +0000


<p> Completely b0rked, yup.  It's using the #defines for IEEE
rounding/trap/exception settings, but attempting to set the hardware
fpcr with them directly instead of using ieee_set_fp_control() and 
friends.  Not surprisingly, this doesn't work.  Nor does it work in
CMUCL for Linux/Alpha (at least, on my computer).  I'm at a loss to
see how it could have worked on OSF1^WDigital Unix^W^WTru64 either,
but I think we just trust that it did.

<p> The man at the guitar shop phoned yesterday, so I went round to
visit today.  It looks like <a
href="pictures/guitar-all.jpg" >this</a>; up close, bits of it look
like <a href="pictures/guitar-body.jpg">this</a>, <a
href="pictures/guitar-pickups.jpg" >this</a>, and <a
href="pictures/guitar-headstock.jpg" >this</a>.  Now all I have to do is
learn to play it.  Easy.

<p> <a name="dot-net">OK,</a> so suddenly everybody has an opinion on
.NET; it seems like I may as well give you mine too. Here goes

<ul>
<li> Copying an MS API gives me the creeps.  It feels like Open Source
is playing perpetual catchup with Redmond's Moving Goalposts, and I'm
not totally convinced that this time the target is firmly planted.
But I don't have any actual evidence that it won't be, so perhaps I
had better Just Get Over It.

<li> The CLR is a nice virtual machine, if for some reason you need a
virtual machine.  Certainly beats the JVM (not, I grant you, that
that's very hard).  Most of the missing stuff in, say, CL
(multimethods, a proper numeric tower, symbols, keyword arguments,
etc) can be implemented on top of it

<li> The problem is that the CLR is also supposed to be a common
interface language.  If I'm programming in some putative Common Lisp
.NET, any of my interfaces which use multimethods, arbitrary-sized
numbers, symbols, or flexible argument list processing are not going
to be available (or at least, meaningful) to users of other
.NET-enabled languages.  So, I can't use many of the natural idioms of
my language in anything which is going to be exported.  I'm going to
take a guess that users of other "esoteric" (I say "high level")
languages are in a similar situation; any general-use libraries in
.NET are going to be either mostly written in C#, or mostly written 
in some arbitrary C#-like subset of whatever language they are in.

<li>I don't actually have a solution to this.  I'm not sure there is
one; I think it's a very hard problem.  This is why it annoys me to
read claims that Microsoft have found it.
</li>
</ul>

<p>The Deblog seems to be <a href="http://www.osdi.org/">offline</a>,
so I replaced it with <a href="http://www.lemonodor.com/"
>lemonodor</a> - which I've been meaning to link to for a while, but 
was looking for another word to add to the first sentence.

