title: So, do you want the good news or the - no wait, good news is all
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Sat, 16 Mar 2002 4:7:34 +0000


<p> So, do you want the good news or the - no wait, good news is all
there is right now.  Good news or no news, I guess.  Sorry.

<P>SBCL PPC forward port progressed, uh, forwards.  Most of it was
renaming, and most of the renaming had already been done (thanks,
Christophe).  The only part requiring actual thought was that it
wouldn't compile branches to targets more than 32k away.
Disturbingly, this looks like a problem shared by CMUCL in its PPC and
MIPS backends, unless they've done something magic I don't understand.
Mail to cmucl-imp called for, tomorrow.  Granted, it's not a bug that
shows often, I expect - it's rare that a single function has a branch
target more than 32k distant.  Anyway, there's now additional magic in
<tt>emit-conditional-branch</tt>: instead of emit-back-patch (which
emits variable numbers but a fixed length of instructions) it has to
emit-chooser.  This lets us have different forms for when the branch
is short and when it exceeds 32k, in which case we code a
one-instruction jump with an inversion of the test condition, then an
unconditional branch to the proper target: we turn

<pre>
beq .far_away
stuff
.far_away
</pre>

into

<pre>
bne .skip
b .far_away
.skip
stuff
.far_away
</pre>

<P> and ditto for other conditions.  I just looked in on the progress
of the native compilation and it had got all the way to second
genesis.  Admittedly at that point it had crashed with a segmentation
fault, but it looks like it had simply run out of memory.  64Mb is not
enough for anyone.  So, edited some numbers and I need to crosscompile
again in the morning.

<p>All being well, this means I have to start trying to remember what
state I left my MP efforts in.  Or time out and play with asdf for a
while longer, but I seem to be on an SBCL roll right now and might as
well get on with it.


<p>Non-geek activities: ahh, that'd be the no news, I guess

