title: I keep opening up this file to write something related to the
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Tue, 2 Apr 2002 1:17:27 +0000


<p> I keep opening up this file to write something related to the
ongoing comp.lang.lisp thread(s) on free^WFree software, then my will
deserts me again.  I've just got through reading (more accurately,
skimming) all the stuff that happened over the weekend, so let's try again.

<p> Free software may destroy the market for proprietary software.  It
would be unfortunate if that happened insofar as employees and owners
of proprietary software companies would have to find something else to
do.  It's unfortunate that companies leveraging the expressiveness and
flexibility of Lisp are adversely affecting the owners and employees
of companies trying to do the same thing in 8080 assembler.  It's
unfortunate that the invention and subsequent production of the spade
caused all the people previously employed to dig holes with their bare
hands to go out of business.

<p>So it's not just a free software problem, it's a technology
problem.  The technologies that were supposed to increase our leisure
time have actually managed to increase the leisure time of some people
to <i>all</i> of the time, and left other people working 80 hour
weeks.

<p>What can we do?  We can pretend the whole thing will go away if we
ignore it.  We can decide that some people (e.g. Lisp vendors) are
more valuable than others (hot metal press operators) and therefore
only some jobs are worth safeguarding.   Or what else?  Work less?
(Suits me, anyway ;-)

<p>Ideas?


