title: Not really getting on too well with this "Finish things"
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Mon, 25 Feb 2002 13:17:9 +0000


<p> Not really getting on too well with this "Finish things"
resolution, as asdf is now lingering around while I occupy my time
with something else.  My excuse for this is that asdf tickles a <a
href="http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?thread_id=514293&forum_id=6767"
>bug</a> in clisp so we can reasonably wait for that to get fixed
first.  Actually, my real excuse is that GnuCash is now really
annoying me and I need to replace it with something I understand, that
doesn't keep adjusting the values in my split transactions, and that
has more support for VAT.  The thought of tying my invoicing and
accounting together with something stronger than shell scripts is also
kind of appealing.

<p>I'm also looking into WAP.  4 lines of text is an information-poor
channel; when considering that in any situation where one might visit
a WAP site one could instead, say, make a voice call and have a
<i>much</i> better user experience, it's going to be hard to make a
sufficiently compelling application.  Anyone have any worthwhile WAP
sites they can recommend to me?  The nearest thing I've found is the
Railtrack site, which on a good day is marginally faster than
phoning the enquiries line might have been.  

<p>Or was, anyway.  Since my phone came back from the repair shop with
all its bookmarks erased, I can't find the URL for the Railtrack site
any more - it seems to be registration-only now.   Bad Kizoom!  No URL!

<p>Everyone else has already linked to this, but never mind.
JavaLobby has an <a href="http://www.javalobby.org/clr.html" >article
on .NET</a> which echoes fairly well my <a href="#dot-net">own
position</a>.  They have included rather more pro-java partisan
arguing than I would have liked, but to their credit they do seem to
have coined the term <b>``skinnable language''</b>

