title: I've been lax updating this thing given the amount of stuff I
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Fri, 12 Jul 2002 15:9:22 +0000

I've been lax updating this thing given the amount of stuff I
potentially could have been saying in it lately.  So, where are we?

We are at the <a href="http://lsm.abul.org/">Libre Software Meeting
2002</a>, in the <a href="http://lsm.abul.org/program/topic01/" >Very
high-level languages for writing applications</a> topic.  The
rationale here, according to the programme - look, if you would only
go and read the programme, it would save me from having to paraphrase
it like this - is that the kernel is done, so now we need to write
applications, and we need these very high-level languages if we're
going to finish the job in timescales that the human brain can relate
to.  Just ask any Mozilla developer.

<p>In fact (as you can reasonably infer from the schedule) it's all a
thinly-veiled plot to get many free Common Lisp developers together in
the same place.  Works For Me.  So we've spent the last few days
discussing things like garbage collection, coping with special (a.k.a
dynamically-bound) variables during multithreading, packaging, bug
tracking, etc etc).  And, as is often the case where two or more lisp
implementors are gathered in the same room, the very high-level
languages we've actually ended up <i>using</i> are C and x86
assembler.  Yeah.  Um.  Christophe is sitting next to me working on
floating point trap handling (see also the <a
href="http://ww.telent.net/diary/2002/3/#14.13604" >previous
attempts</a> to tackle this), Eric Marsden was - until an hour ago
when he went to catch his train - poring over trace files to figure
out why his CMUCL "small" images no longer worked, and I am watching
SBCL build with a new design of non-invasive stack overflow handling.
Currently it can non-invasively detect stack overflow, but it can't
actually <i>recover</i> from same, which makes it a bit useless.
Cargo cult programming is not a sane or sensible way to write x86
assembler glue.

<p> And we've had some talks too, of which more some other time.  

