title: So, after all the blogging discussion at XCOM 2002, and prodded by the fact that
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Tue, 11 Jun 2002 1:17:45 +0000


<p> So, after all the blogging discussion at <a
href="http://www.ntk.net/">XCOM 2002</a>, and prodded by the fact that
someone had actually <i>asked</i> for it, I decided it was time to
investigate all that RDF/RSS/news feeds/syndication business.  Not
(yet, anyway) for this diary, but for 
<a href="/cliki/">CLiki</a>'s
<a href="/cliki/Recent_Changes">Recent Changes</a>.

<ul>
<li>There are four versions: 0.9, 0.91, 0.92, 1.0

<li>0.9 is apparently deprecated.  This hasn't yet stopped slashdot and a
billion other sites from using it, but let's assume we should avoid it
for new work.

<li>1.0 seems to be less of a web site summary format and more an
attempt to take over the world.  Its authors share the common delusion
that if they can simply agree on the symbols between the angle
brackets, they can avoid the <i>hard</i> questions about how to
categorize the planet, and their plan does tend to suffer slightly due
to these priorities. 

<li> 0.92 is backward compatible with 0.91 (which you'd expect for a
1% change in version number, really).  0.91 was not compatible with
0.9; perhaps the people who were around at the time had their
expectations conditioned appropriately by this fine piece of
engineering management, which is why they feel so excited by about
compatibility now.

<li>There is <b>no DTD</b> for 0.92, nor can I find one of those
new-fangled we're-too-dumb-to-read-dtds xml equivalent things.  The
nearest thing is a document on the userland site laughably termed a <a
href="http://backend.userland.com/rss092" >specification</a>, but how
can you have a <i>validator</i> if there's nothing to validate
against?  You can't even write a valid DOCTYPE.

<li>This is a more pertinent question than you might have thought, as
userland have a <a href="http://aggregator.userland.com/validator">
"validator"</a> on their site.  My rdf files pass it.

<li>But whatever their <a
href="http://aggregator.userland.com/register">registration form</a>
does <i>also</i> involves
some kind of validation(sic), and that <i>doesn't</i> work, failing with
the error message

<pre>
  There was a problem reading or parsing your XML file. Here's the
  error message.

     Can't get the address of "language" because the table doesn't
     have an object with that name.
</pre>

This is well up to the Oracle standards for reporting the specifics of
what went wrong, but it's also inaccurate: if we assume that it means
``a required "language" element is missing from (somewhere)'', it's
wrong, because "language" is optional in 0.92.
</li>
</ul>

<p>Can you tell how impressed I am by this?  An RDF probably-RSS feed
of CLiki is now available from <a
href="http://ww.telent.net/cliki/recent-changes.rdf"
>http://ww.telent.net/cliki/recent-changes.rdf</a> anyway.  Let me
know if you find anything useful to do with it.

<p>More <a href="/cclan-choose-mirror">CCLAN mirrors</a>.  Now we need
some more content, really.

