title: Of course, the Wiki markup rules started life as simple things,
like typing indented-but-not-preformatted text by typing TAB : SPACE
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Wed, 3 Jul 2002 15:8:59 +0000

<p> Of course, the Wiki markup rules started life as simple things,
and it wasn't until later that people realised they could do things
like typing indented-but-not-preformatted text by typing TAB : SPACE
TAB at the start of the line (and possibly also typing the entire
paragraph on one line; I forget whether it makes a difference in that
specific instance.  it does for italics, though)

<p> This reminds me of some other software I've been using recently
that starts out with a simple set of rules which combine in
dizzyingly unpredictable ways to do things you would never have
dreamed sensible.  I'm talking about <b>spamassassin</b> here, of course.

<p> I've never been entirely clear, it must be admitted, on how best
to use all the weird gnus options to keep copies of outgoing mail, and
eventually came to the conclusion that the simplest answer would be to
Bcc it all to myself.  This has the neat advantage that I can then
use gnus splitting to filter incoming mail to some regular correspondent
into the same folder as mail <i>from</i> said correspondent, and then
I have both sides of the conversation in the same place.  It has the
(fairly innocuous) side-effect, though, that my outgoing mail loops
through spamassassin before coming back to me, so I get to see
how spammy my mail looks.  Well, look at this

<pre>
X-Spam-Status: No, hits=-98.4 required=5.0
        tests=SIGNATURE_DELIM,FOR_FREE,USER_IN_WHITELIST
        version=2.31
</pre>

<pre>
body     Standard signature delimiter present     SIGNATURE_DELIM    0.488  
</pre>

<p> A <i>positive</i> score for a signature delimiter?  "- - SPACE
\n", so rarely correctly implemented that it became favoured all over
Usenet as the choice "get a real news reader" stick with which to beat
Outlook users (and another great example of why whitespace sensitivity
is a dumb idea, fwiw) is now suddenly an indication that the mail was
sent from some bulk mailing program that injects fake unparseable
received headers, has the wrong system date, and probably still thinks
X-UIDL is a header that should be provided by the sending host?  I
find this not entirely plausible.

<p> From conversations on IRC, I understand that the actual scores for
each rule are computed by feeding a large pile of known-spam and
another large pile of known-nonspam into a genetic algorithm and
letting it work them out.  This sounds like really great news for the
stability of weights on each rule ...

<p>I wish I could find my neural networks book.  It was possibly the
most boring book ever written about what should be an interesting
subject, but I desperately want to be able to liken spamassassin to a
neural network with only one neuron after the kind of particularly
vicious overtraining that should have the owner in court on animal
cruelty grounds, and I really could do with a reliable source to tell
me whether it's a remotely fair comparison.

