title: Once upon a time I bought a copy of the Unix-Haters Handbook
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Wed, 12 Jun 2002 16:41:45 +0000

Once upon a time I bought a copy of the Unix-Haters Handbook.  At the
time I was the biggest Linux bigot I knew, and intended mostly to
laugh at it - in fact, I mostly did.  This <a
href="http://www.linuxgazette.com/issue22/haters.html" >Linux Gazette
review</a> gives you the flavour of my opinions.

<p> As time went by and when I started thinking a little more
rationally about operating systems (this change can be explained by
one of more of (a) finding the <tt>alt.sysadmin.recovery</tt>
newsgroup, or (b) finishing university and getting a real job) I grew
to actually quite like my Unix-Haters handbook, even using it as a
reference for that funky shell trick where you thought you needed
<tt>$*</tt> but should have been using <tt>${1+"$@"}</tt> or something
instead.  I retained my initial opinion that the funny bits were
almost always the reprinted mailing list messages: Garfinkel's filler 
between them was, well, filler.

<p> ``<tt>${1+"$@"}</tt> or something ''?  Yes, well.  Somebody
borrowed my copy from the office and didn't return it, and unhappily
now it's out of print, I can't easily get another.  But after recent
conversations on IRC suggesting that they were still available, I
found the actual list archives on the web: <a
href="http://www.mindspring.com/~blackhart/"
>http://www.mindspring.com/~blackhart/</a>

<pre>
Date: Fri, 14 Dec 1990 18:25-0500
From: GP
Subject: Re: MC:HUMOR;JARGON >

    Date: Fri, 14 Dec 1990 13:54 EST
    From: DH

    The JARGON file is being updated.  The guy doing so has
    changed the nasty references to Unix to refer to MS-DOS
    because "all the ITS partisans have now become Unix
    partisans, since the Unix philosophy is the same as the
    ITS philosophy." as he says.

Amazing!  A valid argument against gun control ...

</pre>

<p>"The guy doing so" presumably being Eric Raymond, I find this
especially funny...

