title: The ulterior motive for this recent spate of CLiki hacking can now be
(has now been) revealed: I have to talk about it in a couple of months time
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Fri, 14 Jun 2002 2:8:46 +0000

The ulterior motive for this recent spate of CLiki hacking can now be
(has now been) revealed: I have to <a
href="http://www.international-lisp-conference.org/Speakers/People/Daniel-Barlow.html"
>talk</a> about it in a couple of months time.  Of all the projects
they might have asked about (<a href="/sbcl-internals/">SBCL</a>
porting, <a href="/cliki/asdf">asdf</a>, <a
href="/cliki/vn-cclan">cCLan</a>, etc), they had to choose the one
guaranteed to send me into apologetic fits about the quality of the
code.  It was a weekend hack.  It shows.

<p> "Plan" is possibly too strong a word, but we have intentions to
create a shared bug database for SBCL and CMUCL, using CLiki.  This
involves a fair bit more structured data going into the page, so that
we can perform searches for things like "give me all the bugs more
than a year old that have not been fixed in sbcl" or "give me all the
bugs reported in cmucl that haven't been tested in sbcl".

<p> So presently I'm practising slash-and-burn refactoring to remove
some of the worst of the hardcoded markup rules and allow people to
add arbitrary indices.  Who knows, maybe in the process we'll even fix
it to pick up the page links and do the full-text indexing in the same
pass, thereby avoiding having to reread the page <i>twice</i> after
every edit.  And fix the current-page-appears-in-own-list-of-links
bug.  And this also gives us an opportunity to introduce a syntax for
"download" links other than the ill-conceived <tt>>(foo-bar.tar.gz)</tt> -
i.e. that doesn't do bad things when people write
<tt>&lt;code>(funcall (compile nil (lambda () (* 2
3))))&lt;/code></tt>

