title: Paolo commented on comp.lang.lisp the other day that CLiki had just had its second birthday
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Mon, 3 Jun 2002 0:53:12 +0000


<p> Paolo commented on comp.lang.lisp the other day that <a
href="/cliki/">CLiki</a> had just had its second birthday.  I believe
him, but I can't actually remember, myself.  The first cut at CLiki
sort of sat around being an undirected wiki-type thing; the second
version was very briefly a resource list for the then-new <a
href="http://www.red-bean.com/lispweb/" >lispweb</a> mailing list
("Some things NOT on topic: LispOS mental masturbation"), then a
couple of days later I decided that I really didn't care very much
about Scheme and that it should concentrate on the stuff I personally
find interesting: Common Lisp stuff on Unix.  At or around that point
I <a
href="http://www.red-bean.com/pipermail/lispweb/2000-May/000093.html"
>posted</a> to lispweb, so I guess I could reasonably consider that
the formal opening.  

<p> My suspicion is that the focus is what's made it successful.  I
don't think it's the only possible focus that would have been a
success, but to make anything that even pretends to be a community
site these days I think you have to find people with some degree of
common goals.  This is my rationalization for adding
things like the dreaded <a href="/cliki/non-free">non-free</a> tag or
my comments on the <a href="/cliki/JavaScript">JavaScript</a> page -
it's not because I'm violently opposed to these things, but because
they're off-topic for CLiki.

<p> (The astute reader will already have observed that I side-stepped
the question of whether I am violently opposed to these things or not.
Even if Shaver's <i>not</i> reading this, i know from the referer(sic)
logs that many other people who read his <a
href="http://off.net/~shaver/diary/" >diary</a> are)

<p> After some more digging around for early CLiki references, I find
my <a href="http://www.advogato.org/person/dan/diary.html?start=39"
>old diary entries</a>.  For comparison, as of right now it's had 36
POSTs since 26th May - so, no significant change there in two years,
then.  The number of GETs has gone up an <i>awful</i> lot, admittedly:
<a href="http://ww.telent.net/lisp/cliki/report.html" >analog</a>
gives current values, as well as a strong indication that most of them
were probably search engine robots.

<p> ILISP 5.12.0
<a href="http://www.geocrawler.com/lists/3/SourceForge/7477/0/8826052/"
>happened</a>, which indicates that I may be getting better at
predicting software releases than I was in the bad old days of <a
href=
"http://lemonodor.com/archives/000114.html" >ftx13</a> 

<p>I know I keep saying this (although, apparently, not in this diary: must
be an IRC thing) but you should expect a couple of new cliki features
in the very near future.  According to my TODO list, all the obvious 
prerequisites for upgrading (it needs, among other things, a new SBCL
version on my <a href="http://www.rackspace.com/">shell host</a>,
which tends to imply a pile of other stuff needing testing too) are
satisfied, so now I'm just waiting for a slack time to do the actual
upgrade.  This would be one, except that right now I'm going to go to
bed instead.

