title: A half hour wasted by spamassassin
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Sat, 6 Jul 2002 15:44:13 +0000


<p>A <b>half hour wasted by spamassassin</b>.  I reattached to the
wireless lan when I got here this morning, ran fetchmail, and watched
my computer eat all its swap and drive the load average to something
above 40 trying to start 70 copies of spamassassin.  It's really time
I sorted some kind of daemon-based approach; in the meantime I just
disabled the thing.  Perhaps I should replace it with some elisp/gnus
stuff that I can actually trust.

<p>A <b>PHP</b> talk: "Using PHP for large web sites".  Can be
summarised as "PHP is too evil to use for large web sites" (slightly
longer summary: "PHP is <i>far</i> too evil to use for large web
sites), but was more entertaining in the long form.  It was gratifying
to have my uninformed three-hours-reading-the-docco opinions on PHP
confirmed by someone who has actually used it in anger.

<p>A <b>Bugzilla</b> talk: how to write a scalable featured
database-backed bug tracking and management system.

<ul>
<li>150000 bugs (120000 dead)
<li>50k users (15k active)
<li>&gt;2Gb of data
</li>
</ul>

<p> Not that I think any of these are going to be requirements for
Entomotomy in the near future, but we can hope.

<p> They also have serious problems with low-quality bug reports, and
a lot of their development (the UNCONFIRMED status, voting on bugs,
etc) has been driven by the need to manage this.  Hope this won't be
our problem either in the near term.  

<p> Out-of-context quote of the day: "Bugzilla is a very forked project"

<p> Bug 12411: <a href="http://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=122411"
>Mozilla does not have a kitchen sink</a> (look at the attachments)

<p> An <B>RT</b> talk: RT is an insanely customizable ticket tracking
system.  But then, it's written in Perl, which (when done right) is
almost sufficient to get you both of "customizable" and "insane" For
Free.

<p><b>Zope 3</b>.  You thought Zope was a web application server, but
actually it's an "Operating System for the Network".  I found the
combination of buzzwords, warmth in the lecture theatre, and XML-like
code in the slides to be unfortunately soporific, but as my network
doesn't actually <i>need</i> an operating system I thought I'd not be
missing anything earth-shattering if I slipped out early.
