title: Yesterday was Bletchley Park
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Mon, 19 Aug 2002 16:49:8 +0000

<p>Yesterday was Bletchley Park.  35 miles is slightly over twice as
far as anywhere I've cycled in that past two or three years, so I was
quite pleased to get there in around two hours twenty minutes,
especially as it turned out to be 40 miles including getting lost.
18 mph average is, I think, fairly respectable.

<p>The Bletchley Park Computer Museum was kind of neat, but they would
benefit (well, <i>I</i> would have benefitted) from the addition of a
LispM or several.

<p> Eventually it was time to leave, and at some point around here the
realization that the return journey was likely to be significantly
slower hit me.  <i>Three</i> hours twenty, for an average speed
slightly less than 13mph, and it didn't help to run out of water
halfway back either.  On getting to the outskirts of civilization
(Headington) I found an open off-licence which would sell me a bottle
of water and a Twix bar: thus rehydrated the final two miles were
easy.  Of course, most of them were downhill too, which didn't hurt.

<p>Yesterday evening I had planned to go to the pub, but found I was
basically too tired and went to bed in fairly short order after a
really odd experience where someone sent me an encoded message I
couldn't break, which sounded <i>exactly like my phone ringing</i>.
Current working hypothesis is that perhaps it was actually just the
phone ringing, and my brain had it been present would have been
telling me I was already half-asleep and should turn the lights off
and so forth.

<p>Feeling remarkably well today, anyway.  Mildly sunburnt, but
surprisingly at least not stiff and aching all over.  Maybe that
happens tomorrow.

<p>Today is deal-with-NTL day.  NTL cable modems work fine until they
go wrong.  When they go wrong, trying to get a human being on the
telephone can take most of a day.  To <i>fully</i> express my feelings
on the matter of the NTL customer service voicemail system would
require the invention of several new words, but in the meantime,
imagine circular voicemail systems, "your call is valuable to us",
"all our operators are busy, please ring back" (after ten minutes
navigating voicemail options, lovely), and enough slightly-out-of-sync
customer databases that every time I ring them I learn about the
existence of another one.  Today I found I was in the Cable Modem
technical support database with the correct postcode, but didn't show
up when they did a postcode search.  Or, for that matter, a search on
subscriber name.  My modem was in there and showed up perfectly
normally on a MAC address search, but there was no link between it and
me.  I thought the purpose of takeovers and mergers was supposed to be
to increase profit by <i>integrating</i> systems, not just amassing
large numbers of disparate ones?

<p>Anyway, the internet is b0rken, has been since some time on
Sunday morning, and probably will be until someone at the NTL local
office (which may or may not exist, because every attempt I've made to
call it has been met with "number not recognized" or forwarded into
the national system) gets a message to phone me back to arrange an
engineer to visit.  Not holding out much hope here, it must be said.
If you send me email, expect to receive answers a little more slowly
than usual:  I've had to dust off the old analogue modem

<p>Today is also, it happens, my birthday, not that I have any
particular plans to celebrate being another year closer to death.  But
anyway, spoils of war so far: teatowels, set of torture^Wbarbecue
implements, sundry cards, and volume 3 of the IA32 Intel Architecture
Software Developer's Manual.  I think that was sent without any
particular reference to the time of year, but thank you anyway Mr
Intel.
