title: That was the shortest three weeeks ever
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Wed, 15 May 2002 9:43:36 +0000


<p> That was the shortest three weeeks ever.  The iMic arrived
yesterday and is <a href="pictures/imic.jpg">even smaller</a> than I
was expecting it to be.

<p>Random observations: 
<ol>
<li> It <i>does</i> work in full-duplex mode.  This is good, because
it would be useless for me otherwise

<li> Plugging it in spewed vast amounts of autodetection and debugging
messages into syslog, then created /dev/dsp1 and a pair of mixers.  gmix
can find the mixers

<li> Using read() and write(), latency is inaudibly little provided I
set the fragment size down to 256 bytes or so.  I may also have needed
to recompile drivers/usb/audio.c without <tt>AUDIO_DEBUG</tt> to get
this: I did that at some point anyway, but can't remember exactly
what caused what any more.

<li> I messed around with mmap() for while, but trying to get it
working without burning out my guitar amp by sending it evil nasty
sounding random digital data is more effort than I suspect it's really
worth.  This is a USB device after all, it's not <i>really</i> DMAable.

<li> Simple time-domain effects (tremelo, delay etc) are dead simple.
Silly twiddly stuff through a multitap delay sounds very Brian May-esque.

<li> SBCL is going about fast enough to keep up.  I don't use
read-sequence and write-sequence: they want to call select() at times
that the audio device isn't expecting.  Instead, I use
array-data-address (from <a href="/ckiki/db-sockets">db-sockets</a> or
the CMUCL manual) to get the actual address to write data into, then
call unix-read and unix-write directly

<li> Some frequency domain effects next, I think

</li>
</ol>

<p>Yes, that is an Irn-bru can.  <i>I</i> like the stuff, OK?

