title: Today is random asides day
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Mon, 1 Jul 2002 23:47:22 +0000

Today is random asides day

<h3>On Living with Packages</h3>

<ol>

<li> don't ever use <b>common-lisp-user</b> for anything bigger than a
noddy two-line test function.  Anything important enough to get saved
in a source file is important enough to set up a package for.

<li> define your package(s) using <b>defpackage</b> forms.  I usually put
these in their own source files, too.

<li> every file starts with an <tt>(in-package :package-name)</tt> form -
except the file with the <b>defpackage</b> form, anyway

<li> make sure you load the files containing the defpackage forms before any
of the other files

<li> <b>use-package</b>, <b>import</b> or any of the other
"imperative" package stuff is, like the use of <b>eval</b>, generally
an indication that you're doing something wrong.  Not always, no.
Usually

<li> a defsystem utility (e.g. mk-defsystem or - my preference - <a
href="/cliki/asdf" >asdf</a>) will automate the
loading-stuff-in-the-right-order aspect

</li>
</ol>

<h3>On being ill</h3>

<p> Well, slightly under the weather at least.  This weekend I had a
wedding (not my own, no), a barbecue, a party and a nose full of
microwaved cotton wool.  Last Friday I had an all-afternoon wish to
lie down and sleep unobtrusively in the middle of the carpet, which I
now realise was probably early cold symptoms, plus a bunch of scary
disk error messages from my colo box (Rackspace fitted a new disk,
upgrading the OS version while they were at it, then I just had to
reinstall all the locally-changed stuff), plus an evening in the pub.
This is all in the nature of an excuse for not having done much
hacking lately.

<h3>On naming</h3>

<p>What really wasn't helping too much is that I'd originally set out
at the start of the week to add some form of access control to the
CLiki application (the <a href="http://ww.telent.net/cliki/">CLiki</a>
site will stay as it is, but there are lots of other applications I'm
imagining for which it would be better to know who the users are and
whether they're <a
href="http://www.jwgh.org/ark/articles/introduction.html#A4"
>Allowed</a>), realised that the handler system for <a
href="http://ww.telent.net/cliki/Araneida" >Araneida</a> is suckier
than it really wants to be for these kinds of application, and ended
up redesigning large parts of it.  And now I've created a new class
called <b>handler</b>, I find that I want to introduce lots of new GFs
whose names clash with existing Araneida functions.  So perhaps this
is time for a name change.  Nobody appears to have produced http
serving software called Boris yet, which is a pretty compelling reason
in itself.

<p>Anyway, we've got to a state where it basically runs again, so
maybe we can get this wrapped up in time for <a
href="http://www.ukuug.org/events/linux2002/" >Thursday</a>
