title: Whitespace sensitivity is cool
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Wed, 3 Jul 2002 14:13:47 +0000

<h3>Whitespace sensitivity is cool</h3>

<p> For some reason I've started reading and contributing to <a
href="http://www.c2.com/cgi/wiki?RandomPages" >Ward's Wiki</a> a lot
more lately.  When I was first doing Wiki I was mostly using Netscape
4, which gives you some idea of how long ago it was, because I can't
actually <i>remember</i> when was the last time I used Netscape 4.
Mozilla rocks.

<p>But, anyway, well.  Except for this bit.  "This bit" is that wiki
has <a href="http://www.c2.com/cgi/wiki?TextFormattingRules" >Text
Formatting Rules</a> which demand a variety of keyboard gymnastics,
not least among them that various formatting (UL lists, BLOCKQUOTE,
PRE etc) demands the insertion of a literal TAB (ASCII 007) character.
Pressing TAB in a Mozilla text field, though, makes it go to the next
text field instead of inserting anything, ^V doesn't seem to do the
conventional readline "insert next character as literal" thing, and
the conventional Emacs "insert next key as literal character" thing -
<b>don't press that!  You just quit Mozilla!</b>.  Without prompting
to do anything with the four paragraphs you just typed, either ...

<p> So, I cut and paste from my *scratch* buffer, which is silly but
just about livable.  But, this is wrong.  This is Free Software.  Even
if I will probably never ever myself actually write <i>code</i> for a
project in which the majority of a 45 minute "how to hack on $project"
talk is given over to a description of getting reference counting
right, I can at <i>least</i> file a bug report.  Or at least, read the
bug report that someone must already have opened on this subject and
see if there's some way to do it already that I'm missing.  Well, they
did, and there isn't.  Bug <a
href="http://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=29086" >29086</a>,
has been open for more than two years, and attracted so much argument
that it's over 100k long as viewed by <tt>lynx -dump</tt>

<P>Lessons we can learn:

<ul>
<li> There is - or should be - an analogue of Godwin's Law which
substitutes "recommend the introduction of a configuration option" for
"compare your opponent to Hitler"

<li> I should add <a href="http://mpt.phrasewise.com/" >mpt's
weblog</a> to my usual reading list instead of stumbling across it
once a month

<li> Whitespace sensitivity is a Bad Thing.  Let's just remind
ourselves of that once again

</ul>

<p> (Yes, I know there's a <a
href="http://www.c2.com/cgi/wiki?ConvertSpacesToTabs" >workaround</a>
in Wiki, but it's heuristic and doesn't seem to do too great a job)

