title: Try the GNU Project's Free Software
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Thu, 6 Jun 2002 0:1:43 +0000


<p> Try the GNU Project's <a
href="http://www.gnu.org/cgi-bin/license-quiz.cgi" >Free Software
licensing quiz</a>.  For what it's worth, I got two wrong: question 6:
offer-of-sources-for-binary-distribution (which I should have known)
and the reverse-engineering question, about which I don't really care.

<p> It suits people to claim that the GNU Licenses are overly
restrictive and this will encourage users of proprietary software to
carry on using that instead.  So, I'd like to offer the "typical
proprietary software EULA licensing quiz", with approximately the same
questions

<form action="http://example.com/dummy_url" method="get">
<input type="hidden" name="mode" value="answer" />


<ol>
<li>
<p>

Joan writes a web browser and releases the source code under a
typical-proprietary-EULA on her web site.  Fred gives a CD with
binaries of Joan's browser to his friend for her birthday.  What happens

  <ol>

    <li>
    <input type="radio" name="q1" value="1" />

    Joan sues Fred
    
    </li>
  </ol>


</li>
<li>
<p> Now Fred makes modifications to Joan's web browser, and
distributes binaries on his web site.  What happens?

  <ul>
    <li><b>I.</b> 

    Joan sues Fred (again)

    </li>
  </ul>

<br>

  <ol>
    <li> <input type="radio" name="q2" value="1" />
    
    <b>I</b>, and nothing else.
    
    </li>

    <li> <input type="radio" name="q2" value="2" />
    
    <b>I</b>, and nothing else.
    
    </li>

    <li> <input type="radio" name="q2" value="3" />
    
    <b>I</b>, but nothing else
    
    </li>

    <li> <input type="radio" name="q2" value="4" />
    
    Any or all of <b>I</b>, <b>I</b>,  <b>I</b>, or <b>I</b>
    
    </li>

  </ol>

 


</li>
<li>

<p> Fred wishes to distribute Joan's browser linked to a
third-party module.  The third party module has the following license:
</p>

<tt><blockquote>
This code may be freely modified, copied and distributed, so long as
no fee is charged for it.
</blockquote></tt>

<p> 
Would this violate the typical proprietary EULA?

</p>

  <ol>
    <li>
    <input type="radio" name="q3" value="1" /> 

    
    Yes    </li>

  </ol>

</li>
<li>

<p>
Peter creates a library called LibIdo licensed under a typical
proprietary EULA.  FooCorp distributes a modified version LibIdo
library linked to their proprietary program Frobber.  Which of the
following is <b>not</b> an obligation of FooCorp?

</p>

<ol>
    <li>
    <input type="radio" name="q4" value="1" />
    
    To lose in court
    
    </li>

    <li>
    <input type="radio" name="q4" value="2" />
    
    To settle out of court
    
    </li>
 
</ol>



</li>
<li>
<p>
Joan wants to distribute copies of her browser statically linked
to Postfix (a mail server), which is released under the <a
href="http://oss.software.ibm.com/developerworks/opensource/license10.html">
IBM Public License</a>, a GPL-incompatible Free Software license.
Other than Postfix, the browser includes only code on which Joan holds the
copyright.  Should she grant an exception to her typical proprietary
EULA  for this?
</p>
  <ol>
    <li>
    <input type="radio" name="q5" value="1" />

    
    No, what would be the point?  People can't copy it anyway

    </li>
</ol>


</li>
<li>
<p>
FooCorp distributes binaries of Joan's web browser on CD
without source code.  They include an offer to provide source code.
Which of the following offers fulfills their obligations?
</p>

  <ul>
    <li>
    <b>I.</b>
       "You can download the source code from our web site at
       http://foocorp.example.com/download.html"
    </li>

    <li>
    <b>II.</b>
       "Everyone who buys a binary CD may order up to one source CD
       per binary CD for $5000."  
    </li>
    <li>
    <b>III.</b>
       "Everyone may order a source CD for $5000."
    </li>
    <li>

    <b>IV.</b>
       "Everyone who buys a binary CD may order up to one source CD
       per binary CD for the cost of distribution."  
    </li>
    <li>
    <b>V.</b>
       "Everyone may order a source CD for the cost of distribution."
    </li>
    <li>
    <b>VI.</b>

       "Everyone who buys a binary CD may order up to one source CD
       for free."  
    </li>
    <li>
    <b>VII.</b>
       "Everyone may order a source CD for free."
    </li>
  </ul>
 <ol>
   <li>

   <input type="radio" name="q6" value="1" />
    
    None of the above.  Redistributing Joan's program is Piracy.
    Piracy is Theft.  Theft is Love.  Cleanliness is next to
    Godliness.  Uh, wait ...
       
   </li>
</ol>


</li>
<li>
<p>
Patty creates a library, and releases it under a typical proprietary
EULA.  Many people make improvements to this library, and submit them
back to Patty, who incorporates them into newer versions of the
library.  Now Patty wants to make a proprietary version of this
library.  She makes two claims:</p>

  <ul>
    <li><b>I.</b> 

    Because the original version was under a proprietary EULA,
    everyone who made improvements was acting in breach of the licence

    </li>

    <li><b>II.</b> 

    Because she is the copyright holder, she can relicense the code,
    so nobody can distribute old versions anymore.

    </li>
  </ul>

<p>Are these claims true?</p>

  <ol>
   <li>
    <input type="radio" name="q7" value="1" />

        Both claims are true.  II is a bit meaningless though, as 
        nobody could have legally distributed the old versions anyway.
    
   </li>
  </ol>




</li>
<li>

<p> FooCorp distributes Frobber linked against an unmodified version
of LibIdo.  Does the licence of LibIdo require FooCorp to allow
users to reverse engineer Frobber for their own use?</p>

  <ol>
   <li>
    <input type="radio" name="q8" value="1" />
    
    Yes.
    
   </li>
   <li>
    <input type="radio" name="q8" value="2" />
    
    No, but it prevents FooCorp from doing this anyway
    
   </li>

  </ol>




</li>
<li>

<p>Now FooCorp modifies Joan's browser to include a technology they
have patented.  They distribute this modified browser on CD.  Are
there any requirements in Joan's licence on how they may license their
applicable patent?</p>

  <ol>
   <li>
    <input type="radio" name="q9" value="1" />

    No, but it doesn't matter: they can't do this anyway
    
   </li>

  </ol>
</li>
</ol>


</form>

<p><i>Hope this helps</i>


<p> <b>grip update:</b> having turned off autorepeat, I find now that
clicking "play" after it's already played the disc once causes it to
start on the last track


