title: Paul Graham, A Plan for Spam
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Fri, 16 Aug 2002 12:3:14 +0000


Paul Graham, <a href="http://www.paulgraham.com/spam.html" >A Plan for Spam</a>.

<p>I used spamassassin for a while, but removed it temporarily when it
started <a href="http://ww.telent.net/diary/2002/7/#6.53053" >eating
my computer</a> after being reintroduced to 200 emails at once when
I'd been away from the net.  And I haven't replaced it since, because
I quite quickly realised that with an approximate 20:1 spam to real
mail ratio after filtering out mailing list stuff, it's actually
simpler to delete spam from the inbox by hand these days than it is to
check the spam folder for false positives (which may be a couple of
orders of magnitude rarer, and so much easier to miss).  So, I don't
have any filtering any more.

<p>Probabilities better than scores?  As <a
href="http://www.advogato.org/person/raph/diary.html?start=258"
>raph</a> pointed out, you can take logs to the probabilities and get
scores, but I don't think that's the issue.  The interesting point is
how you arrive at the per-word numbers in the first place, and the
advantage of the Bayesian system is that it's transparent.  Assuming
current styles of email communication, I doubt that you will see Paul
Graham's webmail system decide that a <a href="/diary/2002/7/#3.50939"
>valid signature delimiter</a> is an indicator of potential spam.

<p>But on a more general note, I think that Paul's "Defining spam"
appendix is a pretty good indication that we have terminology
problems.  What he's built is not in itself a spam filter, it's an
<i>uninteresting-mail filter</i> - actually a far more useful tool -
and if he were to refer to it as such, a lot of the borderline cases
go away.  Domain renewals are interesting to me: offers from Verisign
for a Free E-Commerce Web Site are not.  It doesn't matter if they
think I've opted in or if I have an existing relationship with them:
the point is that I don't want it, and I don't need to define it as
spam before deciding to filter it.

<p>I define spam as <i>persistent or large scale sending of email
in which there is no reasonable expectation that the recipients will
be interested</i>.

<p>This is not a good definition for computers to use; they tend to
choke on words like `reasonable' - but that doesn't matter.  Computers
on the receiving end are just filtering for interestingness anyway and
don't need to care if it's spam.  Computers in the network are
primarily concerned with abuse <i>of</i> the net, so <i>they</i> don't
need to care if it's spam either.  If it's relaying through my
servers, or faking its origin, that's a good enough reason to stop it
no matter what the message content.

<p> Use of automation is a characteristic of much spam, but it's not
essential or even exclusive.  Suppose someone at Amazon has determined
from reading my web pages that I like the Propellerheads, and sent me
email to say that they have the new album at half price.  That's
welcome news to me, and it makes no difference whether they sent the
same email to a million other people (we assume that they'd determined
that those other million were equally as interested).  On the other
hand, you can hand-letter your offer of cheap toner cartridges on
vellum with a quill ten thousand times and send me six of the copies
(each to slightly different mailboxes which are all too clearly routed
to the same eventual destination) by courier delivery, and it
<i>still</i> represents the large-scale sending of mail where you
clearly made no effort to determine whether the recipients were
interested.  Spam.

<p> For the record, I don't want to know about toner cartridges.
