title: Thanks to the Phoenix Picturehouse for managing to show LoTR tonight despite
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Thu, 19 Dec 2002 1:17:2 +0000


<p>Thanks to the <a
href="http://www.picturehouse-cinemas.co.uk/site/cinemas/Oxford/local.htm"
>Phoenix Picturehouse</a> for managing to show LoTR tonight despite
having had a power problem that knocked out half of their supply (and
judging by the neighbourhood, approximately a third of the houses on
the street.  Looks like one of the phases had gone).  Looking forward
to the next round of <a href="http://diaries.diagon.org/" >Very Secret
Diaries</a>.

<p>Thanks also to the Botley Road branch of Carphone Warehouse, for
deciding that my mobile phone was in fact still under warranty and
sending it back (again) for warranty repair (again).  This time I
showed them the engineers' reports from its last two holidays: one
occasion they'd "reflowed filters and p.a." and the other time they'd
"reflowed p.a.s and filters" - I think I managed to make the point
that I would prefer they try something different this time (replacing
the transmitter coil and upgrading the firmware is apparently the
correct fix), but of course, I made that point to the staff in the
shop, so it remains to be seen what the engineers will actually do.

<p><b>No</b> thanks to the Cornmarket branch of the same chain, who
had decided that it was out of warranty, that the Sale of Goods Act
was not relevant (personally I disagree, having old-fashioned notions
that "fit for purpose sold" should usually imply "lasts for more than
three months" when the item in question is a mobile telephone) and
that really they could not offer any help at all.  Next time I buy a
phone, it won't be from you guys.  I regret that the last one was, really.

<p>And, really, no thanks to Ericsson, for (a) producing a phone with
this bug in it anyway, (b) failing to spot it and fix it properly on
the last two repairs.  Five minutes with Google will tell you all you
need to know about the <a href=
"http://groups.google.com/groups?q=alt.cellular.ericsson+t39m+no+network"
>T39m No Network</a> bug - if it's been fixed in models made since end
2001, they really could have rectified it on either of the occasions
it's been back to them in 2002.  Ho hum.

<p>You wanted to know about SBCL threading?  Since the last diary
entry, fixed stupid bug which was stopping the whole thread-local
symbol access from working (creating a new thread was also setting %gs
in the parent thread as well as the child, oops), then owing to not
wanting to think too hard on Sunday evening about writing new VOPs for
locking primitives, decided to take short break by <a
href="http://cvs.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/sbcl/sbcl/version.lisp-expr?only_with_tag=dan_native_threads_branch"
>reintroducing</a> the <a href=
"http://ww.telent.net/diary/2002/7/#14.47243" >control stack
exhaustion checking</a> that I'd disabled when doing the initial
make-multiple-stacks work.

<p>And also took rather longer break (Friday, Saturday, and some
portion of Sunday and Monday to return suits, PA equipment and
generally unwind afterwards) to do Best Man stuff for my friends'
wedding.  No, I did not lose the rings.  No, nobody had any reasons
that the two persons were not allowed to be joined in matrimony.  Yes,
they are now successfully married, and guests at least <i>appeared</i>
to have enjoyed it.  And laughed at (with?) my speech.  But I don't
write here about people with no web presence of their own, so that's
all you hear about that.

<p>Thinking about locks again, now.  That's in the context of
multithreaded systems, not nuptials.
