title: Weekend off, pretty much
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Mon, 2 Dec 2002 16:30:43 +0000

<p> Weekend off, pretty much.  Weekend spent preparing for,
co-ordinating and recovering from my friend Simon's stag night.

<p> <i> write diary and plan the next bit</i>, he said on Thursday.
Said plans have not yet reached the enemy, because still wrestling
with bugs in the current bit.  Most of them fairly silly bugs once
found : what's wrong with this code?

<pre>


(define-vop (bind)
  (:args (val :scs (any-reg descriptor-reg))
	 (symbol :scs (descriptor-reg)))
  (:temporary (:sc unsigned-reg) tls-index temp bsp)
  (:generator 5
    (let ((tls-index-valid (gen-label)))
      (load-tl-symbol-value bsp *binding-stack-pointer*)
      (loadw tls-index symbol symbol-tls-index-slot other-pointer-lowtag)
      (inst add bsp (* binding-size n-word-bytes))
      (store-tl-symbol-value bsp *binding-stack-pointer* temp)
      (inst jmp :ne tls-index-valid)
      ;; allocate a new tls-index
[...]
</pre>

That's right.  There's no test before we do the conditional jump.
Let's try

<pre>
(define-vop (bind)
  (:args (val :scs (any-reg descriptor-reg))
	 (symbol :scs (descriptor-reg)))
  (:temporary (:sc unsigned-reg) tls-index temp bsp)
  (:generator 5
    (let ((tls-index-valid (gen-label)))
      (load-tl-symbol-value bsp *binding-stack-pointer*)
      (loadw tls-index symbol symbol-tls-index-slot other-pointer-lowtag)
      (inst add bsp (* binding-size n-word-bytes))
      (store-tl-symbol-value bsp *binding-stack-pointer* temp)
      <b>(or tls-index tls-index)</b>
      (inst jmp :ne tls-index-valid)
      ;; allocate a new tls-index
</pre>

Hmm.  Why doesn't that work either?  This is (also) the kind of bug
that's blindingly obvious once you realise it, of course: <tt>(or tls
tls)</tt> is not a form that will assemble into the instruction that
<i>does</i> set the condition register.  It's a Lisp expression that
evaluates <tt>tls</tt> then evaluates <tt>tls</tt> if <tt>tls</tt> was NIL.
But then, as you see, doesn't actually use the result in any case.
Eventually I noticed the missing bit:
<pre>
      (<b>inst</b> or tls-index tls-index)
</pre>

and things are substantially rosier.  Now we make it all the way
through cold initialization to the toplevel, but break with what looks
like random memory corruption shortly afterwards.
