title: While I was dreaming (about jumping the ticket barrier at Black Horse
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Tue, 12 Nov 2002 14:15:8 +0000

While I was dreaming (about jumping the ticket barrier at Black Horse
Rd tube station) this morning, I realised that I had a plane to catch
today and had no idea what time it was and whether I'd be late.  So, I
pinched myself, and woke up.  In someone else's bed.  The bed was
fixed to a tall wall, about twenty feet up, and obviously wasn't mine
because (a) mine isn't, and (b) the owner had left a digital watch in
it - I don't own a digital watch.  So, I pinched myself and woke up.
This time I woke up in a bed in a large open space with a sky the
colour of the sky in whichever Pink Floyd album cover involves a
desert full of beds, situated next to a glass computer laboratory
partially submerged in a water feature comprising a pool with a
fountain and a wide stream running down from it.  A brief moment more
concentration, and I was in a normal bed in a fairly normal looking
place, which only really gave itself away as not my own bedroom when I
remembered that I'd left California over a week ago and <i>didn't</i>
need to catch a plane after all.

<p>So when I woke up for real this morning (in my own bed, yay) my
first thought was "where am I?" and my second was "that was a
<i>lot</i> of stack unwinding"

<p>I mention this only because the diary entry I had previously been
planning to write started out something like "When I was five years
old, I had a vivid imagination that seems to have dissipated somewhat
in the two and a half decades since".  Suddenly this seems to be not so
unarguably true.
