title: It appears that I wrote half of and then forgot about a September 15th
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Fri, 27 Sep 2002 17:14:47 +0000

It appears that I wrote half of and then forgot about a September 15th
entry, which subsequently posted itself when I rsynced the htdocs
directory for some other reason.  Oh well.  I'll fix it up at some point

<p>
I guess from context that "The Bourne Identity" is a film.  Given that
every time I read the title my first instinct is to assume it's an
<tt>sh</tt> function that returns its argument, there is probably no
hope for me.  Um.

<p>
At last I have wireless at home (and in the back yard, and in the
street behind that about as far back as the corner of the block).  The
PLX thing that I'd wasted 

<a href="http://ww.telent.net/diary/2001/11/#24.7925">so</a>
<a href="http://www.advogato.org/person/dan/diary.html?start=68">much</a>
<a href="http://www.advogato.org/person/dan/diary.html?start=67">time</a>

trying to get working on and off over the past year is now in the bin,
after I happened into PC World yesterday and saw they were selling
real PCI-PCMCIA adaptors for £25 (compares with £21.74 mailorder from
dabs.com, so not an unreasonable instant-gratification-tax)

<p>(All indications are that the PLX stuff does work for other people;
the most likely explanation for why mine doesn't is that the hardware
itself was b0rked)

<p>Stuff happening lately:

<ul>
<li> <a href="http://www.stargreen.com/">Stargreen Box Office</a>
visual makeover: now substantially less ugly

<li> <a href="http://test.ox.telent.net/entomotomy">Entomotomy</a>
(temporary URL, wrong side of cable modem, unreliable) initial site,
running.  Further hacking, ongoing.  
<a href="http://test.ox.telent.net/entomotomy/TODO">TODO list</a>,
shortening slowly.

<li> It's required remarkably little hacking of <a
href="/cliki/asdf">asdf</a> to get the Debian <a
href="http://packages.debian.org/unstable/devel/common-lisp-controller.html"
>Common Lisp Controller</a> to work with it.  It's required, as far as
I can tell from <a href="http://www.b9.com/">Kevin</a>'s commit
messages, substantially more work to CLC itself, none of which I did.
My involvement is mostly to sit on <a href="/cliki/IRC">IRC</a> and
say "it already does that", or sometimes "no, I won't make it do that"

<li> The Local Food Directory (placeholder page at <a
href="http://www.buyitlocally.org.uk/"
>http://www.buyitlocally.org.uk/</a>) is substantially finished except
for not working at all in a few key respects.  It turned out to be
most conveniently implemented as another CLiki application.

</li>
<li>That's all I can remember right now.
</ul>

<p>I got email from a friend asking about book recommendations for
Knowledge-Based Systems.  It's not exactly my area of expertise (OK,
so I'm a Lisp programmer.  That doesn't <i>have</i> to mean I know
anything much about AI) so I spent a few minutes with Google and found
(among other, more relevant things) this <a
href="http://www.satirewire.com/features/satire-jeevesinterview.shtml"
>interview with Ask Jeeves</a>

