title: I don't wear a watch (the strap fell off it about five years agon, and
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Sun, 27 Oct 2002 1:8:7 +0000

I don't wear a watch (the strap fell off it about five years agon, and
i never got around to getting it fixed).  Instead I use my cellphone
to tell the time - I carry it basically everywhere and it's turned on
pretty much all the time, so really I'm only inconvenienced on planes
and in churches.  Anyway, It's 2:09am according to said phone.
Confusingly, it's still light outside - local time is 18:09.  Double
confusingly, it's 1:08am according to emacs, which obviously knows
more about the BST->GMT shift (that's the UK equivalent of daylight
savings time) than my cellphone does.

<p>I can't believe that there's no UTC time signal on the GSM network
that cellphones could set themselves to.  I suspect there is, and my
phone's inability to use it is just typical consumer electronics
design lossage.

<p>So I'm in Starbucks.  I wouldn't usually, but dim recollection
suggested that they had wireless access in most or all branches, and
indeed they do.  For the knockdown rate of only $2.99/15 minutes - not
only is this about double what internet cafes cost in 1996, but back
then the cafes actually had to provide the hardware too.  Do I feel
ripped off?  Yes, but only for $2.99, as I now have some useful AP
detection tools installed which I am sure I can use to find a more
friendly service provider.  On the standard friendliness scale that
has, say, "your dog" at one end and "your bank manager" at the other,
Starbucks is on current showing somewhere out in "loan shark
collection agent" territory, so this really should be Not Too Hard.

