title: If you're reading this at about the time I wrote it, some of the
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Thu, 31 Oct 2002 17:44:26 +0000

If you're reading this at about the time I wrote it, some of the
preceding (lexically following) diary entries are really rather short.
Apologies for that.  I might go back and fill them in later, but in
the meantime: the URL was written down during Duane Rettig's
simple-streams tutorial, and should point to Paul Foley's
simple-streams implementation for CMUCL.  The aardvark was an example
in Nick Levine's CommonSQL tutorial.

<p>The conference (I'm at the <a
href="/cliki/International_Lisp_conference" >ILC</a>, if I'd forgotten
to mention it before) is now about 80% done.  Noteworthy points

<ul>

<li> McCLIM rocks

<li> I met Gary Byers, who tells me that there's a perfectly good
reason for the trick with lowtag punning that CMUCL/ppc was doing.
I'm going to have to reread it before I understand his point well
enough to explain it to anyone, but it's related to (avoiding the pain
of) interior pointers into objects

<li> Roger Corman talked about native threads and how he added them to
Corman Lisp.  The good news is that we've already been doing some of
what he's had to do; the bad news is that without having native
threads as a driver to make sure we get it right, we probably haven't
been doing it particularly uniformly.

<li> Open Source vs Not: Kent Pitman gave a short talk in which he
managed to assocate the concepts `college students', `don't have to
work for a living', and `dumping' with authors of open source
software, but without actually at any time directly stating that said
authors are or are doing any of the above.

<li> Metadata: lots of stuff about the semantic web, with exciting
pointy-bracket-acronyms (RDF, DAML+OIL, OWL, etc).  My opinion
continues to be that 
<ul>
<li> metadata is just data, and if you don't trust the
actal data to be true (we're talking about web pages here, so you
certainly <i>shouldn't</i>) why would you want to trust the metadata
either, given that it's probably been provided by the same people.  I
choose to interpret remarks by Peter Norvig (talking about people
trying to stuff up Google) as supporting this position

<li> highly structured data (all this angle bracket soup) tends to
lead to brittle and unadaptable systems, and this doesn't scale.  The
virtue of the Web is that it works despite being essentially
mob-driven.  RPG, I think, would agree with that.  In fact, RPG said
exactly that, just not in the context of metadata.
</li>
</ul>
<li> Lisp is in decline, because people in the various US Government
departments using it are agitating for its removal.  Um.  This is a
different belief than "because of the AI Winter", but holding it
<i>still</i> precludes you from adding yourself to the CLiki <a
href="/cliki/YoungLispers" >YoungLispers</a> page.  People were saying
the same thing about Unix in 1994, I'm sure.

<li> Lisp is unsuitable for Google because implementations don't cope
with their scary scaling requirements.  More generally, of the ten or
so pretty-much-unique advantages of Lisp ten years ago (GC,
interactive development, native support for collections, etc etc) only
about two are still unique.  Norvig considers the syntax to be one of
them (if you're doing macros, it is).

<p>My comment on this is that you can't yet get all of the other eight
advantages in the <i>same</i> language.  

<li>MCL 5.0 got announced

<li> I appear to have volunteered to help with the ALU web site, and
with any luck we might have some progress forthcoming soon (like, next
week).  The plan is to turn it from a perfectly preserved museum piece
into a living site that people actually want to visit more than
once.</li>

<li>Next year's conference (the plan is that there will be one, yes)
is probably at about the same time of year, in New York.

</ul>

