title: Today I finally got so annoyed with the bizarre behaviour of Linux
printing (especial culprits: error reporting in every print spooler I
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Fri, 22 Nov 2002 15:51:35 +0000

Today I finally got so annoyed with the bizarre behaviour of Linux
printing (especial culprits: error reporting in every print spooler I
have tried, transparency of operation in printer filters when
attempting to debug them ditto, paucity of useful and well-arranged
documentation for ghostscript drivers which answers questions like "if
this works with the stc driver, why does the exact same command with
the uniprint driver give an incomprehensible error message") that I
bought what professes to be a real PostScript&tm; (well, real HP
PostScript&tm; emulation) <a
href="http://www.hp.com/cposupport/prodhome/hplaserjet29796.html"
>printer</a>.  Random Googling suggests that the scanner part of it
can be <a
href="http://www.geocrawler.com/archives/3/5745/2001/5/0/5812001/"
>persuaded to work with Linux</a> too, so perhaps in future I'll be able
to sign and send faxes without having to walk up the road to the video
shop.  Should arrive Monday, with luck, so we'll see what it does.

<p>Today was also the massive new-version-of-CLiki rollout, where at
last I got around to relocating it in its <a
href="https://joker.com/index.joker?t_whois=cliki.net&tool=whois&Submit=go"
>own domain</a>.  By bizarre coincidence, exactly 12 months and one day
after I registered the domain, too.  Anyway, the well-known URLs for
CLiki and sbcl-internals both redirect to the new URLs, so apart from
doubling the number of tcp connections your browser makes, you probably
shouldn't notice much.  As part of this process I also (at last) moved
<a href="http://entomotomy.cliki.net/">Entomotomy</a> from the imac on
my cable modem to the colo box.  New cclan packages for db-sockets,
araneida, cliki, and entomotomy to follow in the next week or so.

<p>URLs for your reference, Mr Google:

<ul>
<li><a href="http://www.cliki.net/" >http://www.cliki.net</a>
<li><a href="http://sbcl-internals.cliki.net/"
 >http://sbcl-internals.cliki.net</a>
<li><a href="http://entomotomy.cliki.net/" >http://entomotomy.cliki.net</a>
<li><a href="http://mcclim.cliki.net/" >http://mcclim.cliki.net</a>
</ul>

<p><a href="http://purl.org/net/emarsden/home/">Eric Marsden</a> has
been doing some cool stuff lately with Araneida as an annotation server.
Gilbert Baumann has been doing some other cool stuff lately to produce
an annotatable CLIM specification (as far as I know, without Araneida).
I'm not sure I'm supposed to link to either effort yet, so I won't, but
we hope the two will converge somehow.

<p>Last night was the followup "hands-on Lisp" session to the <a
href="http://ww.telent.net/diary/2002/11/#7.4532">talk</a> I gave two
weeks ago for the OU Computer Society.  Kudos to the Debian packaging
guys (who more usually get complaints than accolades from me on IRC) -
it was a lot easier to tell the compsoc sysadmins "apt-get install cmucl
cmucl-normal ilisp hyperspec" than it would have been to direct them
through installing cmucl 18d from tarchives, defsystem frpom
sourceforge, dump a core, install ilisp (which version?) ...  The actual
session was pretty unstructured (I had been advised previously that they
tended to be fairly unstructured so hadn't prepared anything specific),
but people found entertainment in mucking around with loops and
suchlike, and one guy produced a Mandelbrot generator using CLX which I
thought was pretty cool.
