title: Paid projects calming down a little, so today was housekeeping day for
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Wed, 11 Sep 2002 1:35:0 +0000

Paid projects calming down a little, so today was housekeeping day for
some more of the free stuff.

<ul>

<li> At last, the lucky members of the general public have <a
href="http://cvs.telent.net/">CVS access</a> again for telent projects
</li>

<li> New release of <a href="/cliki/db-sockets">db-sockets</a> with
all known bug fixes (this is not another day of saying "all known bugs
fixed").  This will be 0.55 when it appears on vn-cclan and the
notable change is a fix for unix-domain sockets
</li>

<li> First <a href="/cliki/Entomotomy">Entomotomy</a> <a
href="http://cvs.telent.net/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/entomotomy/">checkin</a>:
code I hacked out before and during the LSM and haven't really looked
at since.  I'm pretty sure it did <i>something</i>, or at any rate
that I believed at the time that it did something.  Which may not be
the same thing entirely
</li>
</ul>

Immediate priorities for, say, tomorrow, are to understand what
entomotomy does or doesn't do, and hopefully to get it into a state
where it does something useful.

<p>I'd write something amusing here, but the truth is I'm tired and
would rather get some sleep.  I briefly also considered writing
something bitter and cynical about the darker parts of ANSI CL, or
this afternoon's fight with cvs error messages, or even Oracle (a rich
seam of source material which I don't think will ever really run out),
but the truth is I'm just too happy (for, it must be admitted,
substantially unrelated reasons) to summon the necessary bile.  So,
nyer.


