title: Superfluous link to someone's weblog entry
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Tue, 15 Apr 2003 0:42:43 +0000

Superfluous link to <a href="http://lemonodor.com/archives/000389.html" 
>someone's weblog entry</a>

<p> So what did I do this weekend?

<p>On Saturday I missed the <a
href="http://www.gllug.org.uk/meeting-20030412.html" >GLLUG
meeting</a>, but turned up to the pub afterwards.

<p> On Sunday I implemented some bits of the SB-POSIX interface.
Knowing that comp.lang.lisp posters from time to time complain about
the lack of a standard POSIX interface, I also posted its
specification there in the hope of stimulating some discussion about
whata standard should look like..  Almost all the discussion I managed
to stimulate was about the package name, so I'm lacking any real
guidance as to whether people think it otherwise (a) sucks ass, (b) is
good enough in all other respects not to need comment, or (c) is
fundamentally uninteresting.  Ho hum.  That said, if I <i>had</i> had
a bunch of followups saying "this is really great" I wouldn't have
been a lot more pleased about it anyway: "this is really great and I'm
going to lobby my vendor to implement it", or "this is really great,
and I am a vendor so will implement it" is more what I would consider
a positive response.  Never mind.

<p> And today, in between telephone calls, I figured out most of how
to make RPM automatically get package dependency information from the
asdf :depends-on options.  So far ...

<pre>
:; ls
clx-0.5-1_circle.i386.rpm
detachtty-7-1_circle.i386.rpm
hemlock-2003.03.06-1_circle.i386.rpm
ilisp-5.12.0.2003.03.22T193233-1_circle.i386.rpm
odcl-1.3.1.20030410T230844-1_circle.i386.rpm
sbcl-0.pre8.54-1_circle.i386.rpm
uncommonsql-1.2.0.20030410T231957-1_circle.i386.rpm
uncommonsql-postgresql-1.2.0.20030410T231957-1_circle.i386.rpm
</pre>

<p>(All this stuff built with Red Hat 8).  I want to add araneida,
cliki, and maybe the series library to this.  I probably want to make
it do Debian packages as well (it sort of does already, but it cheats by
using alien, so the dependencies are a bit skewed).

<p> Predicted FAQ #1: "Native threads?"  A: "Experimental, but yes".
#2: "How do I get my hands on this".  A: "send me some money".  #3:
"isn't that against the principles of free software?"  A: "<a
href="http://www.fsf.org/philosophy/selling.html">no</a>".  Details
forthcoming (or <a href="mailto:circle@metacircles.com">send email</a>
if you can't wait) but if you're new to Lisp, this stuff will save you
more time fiddling with badly documented install procedures than you
ever spent trying to configure Wine before giving up and buying <a
href="http://www.codeweavers.com/products/office/">Crossover
Office</a>.
