title: They say that once you've learnt to ride a bike you never forget
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Fri, 18 Apr 2003 3:50:35 +0000

They say that once you've learnt to ride a bike you never forget.
Or is that elephants?  I have trouble visualising an elephant riding a
bicycle, but suspect it needs one like a woman needs a fish.

<p>Anyway.  Um.  Not cycling, but I hope some similar law of nature
applies to driving a car, because not having sat behind the wheel of
one since <a href="http://ww.telent.net/diary/2002/3/#6.4450" >about
13 months ago</a>, I've rented a vehicle to get me to Milton Keynes on
Tuesday.

<p>(Car hire companies all seem to have this bizarre rule that you
can't hire a car until your driving license is at least a year old.
Makes no sense to me, but never mind)

<p>So I've been working a little more on this packaging lark, trying
to beat ilisp into the kind of shape that it will install and do
anything useful without requiring the services of an emacs guru.
Which involved what looks suspiciously like an <a href=
"http://groups.google.com/groups?q=gnu.emacs.bug+y-or-n-p&hl=en&lr=&ie=UTF-8&selm=mailman.4735.1050513350.21513.bug-gnu-emacs%40gnu.org&rnum=1"
>emacs bug</a>.  (Phoenix 0.5 users are cautioned against clicking on
that link: at least on my machine, it hangs the browser).  I'm being
continually reminded that there's lots of stuff that I as a relatively
seasoned lisp user don't usually even <i>notice</i>, but which would
probably cause the newbie to reach for his support line.  Or (which is
probably just as bad) cause him to develop a tolerance for random
spewage which would lead to his missing messages that actually
<i>are</i> important.

<p>Anyway, now you can type <tt>circle</tt> at a shell prompt, and it
updates your .emacs file, launches emacs, starts sbcl, that kind of
stuff.  And so we edge gradually closer to something that's actually
usable.

<p>And fixed a few random SBCL <a
href="http://sbcl-internals.cliki.net/Threading" >threading</a> bugs.
I still need to muck around with the wait queues a little, and
probably to export the symbols from timer-related functions, but I
think we're at the point where we could usefully put out pre-release
binaries to pick up a slightly wider test audience.  (I believe that
Debian unstable users can do this already, thanks to kmr: <tt>apt-get
install sbcl-mt</tt>.  If they are doing, though, they aren't
reporting bugs)


