title: I think I must have been busy lately
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Fri, 28 Mar 2003 0:22:26 +0000

I think I must have been busy lately.  I just can't remember much of
what I've been doing.

<p>Not that this is the problem that keeping an online diary is
supposed to solve, or anything.  Oh well.  Speaking of online diaries,
<a href="http://www.advogato.org/article/644.html" >Is the active
user-base of Advogato incompetent?</a> Well, yes.  I was going to post
a followup saying "I used to hesitate before posting Advogato articles
because they'd get taken apart by knowledgeable people, but now I
don't bother to post them at all because they get taken apart by
people who just don't have a clue."  But then I realised that
it would get taken apart by people who just don't have a clue.  As
Mark Jason Dominus said, <a
href="http://perl.plover.com/yak/design/samples/note.html" >"Forget
what I said about the damn iterator pattern, already"</a>

<pre>
06:54:53 &lt;Krystof> so the big question is: "what does the next
version get called?"
06:55:07 &lt;Krystof> 0.7.14.1? 0.8.0pre.1?
06:57:10 &lt;Krystof> (well, maybe that's not the big question)
06:59:16 &lt;wnewman> I haven't noticed any response to my mention of
0.8.0 on the mailing list, so it seems to be only you and I who care.
07:00:40 &lt;wnewman> If the SB-PCL:CLASS stuff lands, and Dan either
puts in threads or doesn't care, it's OK with me if the next release
is 0.8.0, and it's ok with me if it takes more than a month.
07:00:40 &lt;wnewman> which hopefully gives everyone concerned enough
leeway
</pre>

<p>New SBCL (0.7.14) was released on Monday, and was probably notable
chiefly for being, as you see here, the last release before 0.8.
Unless you're using bit vectors, in which case you could get some kind
of 100x speedup, which I think is worth noting.  0.8 will have better
PCL integration, and (experimental probably-not-enabled-by-default)
native threads on x86 Linux.  Yes, that's right, it's merge time.
Mostly this is an exercise in arranging the source such that threaded
and unithread sbcl can be built from the same code base, and (for
bonus points) that the code in question is reasonably free of Weapons
of Mass #define

<p>Also London and Oxford meetings of (minimally overlapping) subsets
of the UK-Lispers list.  At (or arguably, after) the latter of these,
Christophe fixed SXHASH on PPC, so it no longer returns 0 for symbols
whose names are less than 4 characters long.

<p>Started cycling again last weekend, for the first time since, um,
<a href="/2002/8/#19.56948">last August</a>.  The saddle on my bike is
less comfortable than I remembered it as having been, but I expect
I'll get used to it again.

