title: Newsgroups: comp.lang.lisp
Subject: Re: NYC LOCAL: Tuesday 11 February 2003 Lisp in New York City: Lispers gather to eat and drink
References:       
From: Daniel Barlow 
Date: Tue, 11 Feb 2003 05:50:11 +0000
Message-ID: 
User-Agent: Gnus/5.090005 (Oort Gnus v0.05) Emacs/21.2 (i386-debian-linux-gnu)
Cancel-Lock: sha1:ncgGPtz9RG9Poh/XpT/kAVQnZik=
In-Reply-To:  (Gabe Garza's message of "Tue, 11 Feb 2003 02:23:58 GMT")
Gabe Garza  writes:
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Tue, 11 Feb 2003 5:50:58 +0000

<pre>
Newsgroups: comp.lang.lisp
Subject: Re: NYC LOCAL: Tuesday 11 February 2003 Lisp in New York City: Lispers gather to eat and drink
References: <b254kl$6on$1@panix2.panix.com> <3E4689E1.708@nyc.rr.com> <m3vfztdx96.fsf@localhost.localdomain> <3e47332d.120992159@netnews.attbi.com> <zKycnb95RN1JwNqjXTWc-w@speakeasy.net> <877kc7n90s.fsf@noetbook.telent.net> <877kc7blda.fsf@ix.netcom.com>
From: Daniel Barlow <dan@telent.net>
Date: Tue, 11 Feb 2003 05:50:11 +0000
Message-ID: <87znp3l624.fsf@noetbook.telent.net>
User-Agent: Gnus/5.090005 (Oort Gnus v0.05) Emacs/21.2 (i386-debian-linux-gnu)
Cancel-Lock: sha1:ncgGPtz9RG9Poh/XpT/kAVQnZik=
In-Reply-To: <877kc7blda.fsf@ix.netcom.com> (Gabe Garza's message of "Tue, 11 Feb 2003 02:23:58 GMT")
--text follows this line--
Gabe Garza <g_garza@ix.netcom.com> writes:

>> CLiki is a Wiki1 - there is only one namespace.  So, your name is
>> guaranteed unique.  If you change the name, put a note on the old page
>> and I'll go round and garbage collect eventually.
>
> If the ALU web site--or part of it--is going to be a subset of CLiki, 
> is CLiki's mission statement going to be changed to to accomodate 
> commercial Lisp's and non-Unix Lisps's?

Good question.  The term "CLiki" is overloaded, which is probably
going to get confusing

* CLiki as a piece of software (which you can download and,
  eventually, after much cursing, install on your own servers) is
  freely usable for any purpose

* The CLiki installation at www.cliki.net continues to be for "free
  software implemented in Common Lisp and available on Unix-like
  systems"

* The CLiki installation at alu.cliki.net, on the other hand, is
  "produced by the ALU with and on behalf of the Common Lisp users and
  vendors community".  Yes, that includes commercial Lisps.

In short, they're two completely different sites.  You can tell by the
ghastly background colour (replacement suggestions welcome, btw).
They don't don't share pages.  Eventually I hope that the ALU one will
shift to the new ALU web server, when that's running.  So in that
sense, no change in the direction of CLiki is required.

What I expect to see happen is that some of the information currently
on www.cliki.net will start moving to the ALU site.  For example, many
of the documents referenced on www.cliki.net are non-free(sic) and
would be better off on the ALU site - likewise some of the news about
commercial or Windows implementations is not really relevant to
www.cliki.net either, and can migrate across.  Some past attempts at
"community standards" have been made on www.cliki.net, which again
might be better off in a place where people don't feel they need to buy
into some ideology to participate.

I don't yet know exactly what this is going to do to www.cliki.net in
the long term[*].  It may live on independently, or it may fizzle, or
it may end up as a view onto the ALU site showing only the pages with
a tick against "bruce perens says you won't go to hell for reading
this".  I have my own plans (which don't involve it dying off just
yet), but mostly it depends on where the contributors want to take it.


[*] OK, medium term.  In the long term I'm really hoping that we won't
need to be using Unix any more.

-dan

-- 

   http://www.cliki.net/ - Link farm for free CL-on-Unix resources 
</pre>
