title: I started writing this entry the other day, but it was killed due to a
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Sat, 11 Jan 2003 4:43:3 +0000

I started writing this entry the other day, but it was killed due to a
kernel problem.  

<p>My phone didn't come back, as such.  Instead they gave me a new
one, so that really ought to fix the problem.  Thank you, Botley Road
Oxford branch of Carphone Warehouse

<p>All things considered, less done this week than I might have hoped
to do.  Having got the phone back, I obviously needed to get the
numbers back into it - having cut and pasted the first two into cu, I
decided to write a short perl program to do the rest automatically.
Whee.  Flashing caps lock light time.  OK, let's do (almost) what I
should have done instead and write it in lisp (I say "almost" because
it's actually a shell script starting <tt>#!/usr/bin/clisp</tt>).
Flash bang wallop #2.  Hmm.  Some poking around reveals that the
device objects to having close() called, but as the oops is actually a
full-blown kernel panic (in sched.c) and even stuff like magic sysrq
only just about works, it's not going to be easy to get a log for.

<p>(Some IRC people did recommend a serial console.  Well, yes, but .
If I had a serial port, I'd have plugged the phone in there in the
first place and wouldn't <i>need</i> to be screwing around with USB.)

<p>So I (forward ported to 2.4.21-pre3, wrote debian init scripts for,
and) installed <a href="http://lkcd.sf.net/" >LKCD</a> to get some
kind of crash dump I could actually use.  That seems to fixed things
all by itself - at least, now I cannot replicate the problem.

<p>The upside of all this is that 2.4.21-pre3 has some kind of sane
memory usage patterns and once again I have a laptop that doesn't
thrash itself for tens of seconds at a time on simple operations.  My
spies tell me that these days -ac kernels are using some variant of
the rmap VM, and non-ac kernels are not.  So, probably going to blame
rmap.  Maybe it's badly tuned.  I still have LKCD installed for
when I <i>do</i> manage to crash the machine using USB serial, but
let's upload this diary entry first, shall we?
