title: Notes on McCLIM : day 1
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Thu, 17 Jul 2003 2:58:16 +0000

Notes on McCLIM : day 1

<p> I'm using SBCL approximately-0.8.1, telent CLX (CVS version, but
it's near enough the current release) and McCLIM anon-cvs of
approximately whenever this diary entry is made.  SBCL is compiled
with the :sb-thread feature.  The assumptions I've made so far may be
horribly horribly wrong, but it seems to be working.  I probably
<i>won't</i> come back and revise this at a later date as I find out
more, so do be sure to read later diary entries if you stumble across
this significantly later than I'm writing it and are expecting to
depend on anything you learn here.

<p> To build McCLIM, <tt>(load "system")</tt> then <tt>(asdf:operate
'asdf:load-op :clim-clx)</tt>.  Don't bother installing  mk-defsystem,
someone's passed this way with asdf already.  OK, that might have
been me in an earlier life

<p> It's visibly faster than it used to be.

<p> The first two chapters of the manual (in McCLIM Doc/) have a
worked example, which is worth looking at.  Note that the output from
the <tt>parity</tt> command is only displayed <i>very very
briefly</i>.  If you'd like to actually see it, add the option
<pre>
          :display-time nil
</pre>
to the define-application-frame / :panes / app form.  This stops the
default refresh stuff from blanking it out as soon as it's rendered.

<p> Some layout monkeying was needed, in define-application-frame.
Note that

<ul>
<li> the modus operandi seems to be that (1) the interesting panes get
named in the :panes clause, then (2) the :layouts clause describes one
or more arrangements for how to fit them together.  In this case we
have a single layout called <tt>default</tt>. The layouts clause
actually introduces more panes for layout control, but they don't get
names.  <tt>vertically</tt> and suchlike are actually macros that
expand into calls to <tt>(make-pane 'some-pane-type ...)</tt>:
although it looks fairly declarative at the front, that's just a
front.

<li> we've chosen a non-Courier font.  This is Required :-)

<li> <tt>scrolling</tt> in the layout puts a scroller-pane around our
journal - i.e we now have scroll bars.  We disable the scrollbar for
the inner journal (there was only a vertical scrollbar to start with)
because it was always coming out with the thumb the same size as
the pane, so no actual scrolling movement was available from it.
</ul>

<p> Our goal here is a new frontend for the metacircles bookkeeping
system (actually, the real goal is just to print out a couple of
invoices, this whole clim thing is so much sidetrack.  But anyway)
so we really want most of the application pane to be showing
the same thing most of the time, instead of being dribbled into by
various commands.  So, remove <tt>:display-time</tt> again and replace with 
<tt>:display-function 'display-journal</tt>.  Now we just have to
write a <tt>display-journal</tt> method that does the business.

<p> <tt>display-journal</tt> depends quite heavily on some kludgey
macros I wrote a couple of weeks ago to sit atop Eric Marsden's
pg.lisp.  You don't see them here, and they aren't yet available
anywhere else (though will be, someday, when they're cleaner).
Regardless, it should be fairly obvious what they do.

<p> Look at the presentation types!  I don't know if this is actually
a sensible use for them: I haven't worked out how to get these not to
be higlighted when moused-over yet; I thought the <tt>:single-box
nil</tt> ould do that, but it doesn't.  In the meantime, notice that
you need to define a presentation type, then a bunch of methods on it
to tell the system how to present it and how to input it.  We've only
done the <tt>present</tt> method for these so far.

<p> Fell into a what-strange-thing-is-clim-doing-now trap for too
long, before realising that the problem was pg (or, just as likely,
my glue for it) catching errors and throwing them away without telling
me something had gone wrong.  This made it difficult to work out why
it had suddenly stopped wanting to print anything other than the
column titles.

<p> If you really care you can have a gander at the <a
href="/clim-20020716.lisp">current source</a> and/or the <a
href="/thyme.png" >screenshot</a>.  Should note that it's not being
entered for any artistic prizes, but at least it's not Courier.

<p> There is a problem with the queuing/refresh.  This manifests in
two ways

<ul>
<li>First, refresh doesn't always happen until the next time the
application gets some events (mouse movement or keys or suchlike)

<li>Second, more rarely, something iffy in the bowels of SBCL or CLX
makes it hang every so often (not usually all that often, but it
varies).  <tt>killall -CONT sbcl</tt> from the command line tends to
unstick it in those cases.
</ul>

<p> Ok, that's enough for one evening.



