title: In recent months, I've become teed off enough with the speed of
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Tue, 27 May 2003 2:43:28 +0000

<p> In recent months, I've become teed off enough with the speed of
ifile-gnus that I find myself doing all kinds of stuff to avoid
actually pulling my mail into gnus, often for days at a time.
Typically this means running mutt on my shell host, which means that
my mood for the day is set by checking email in the morning and
deleting 100 assorted get rich quick schemes, offers of
pharmaceuticals, viruses and invitations to pornographic web sites
which are probably illegal and damn well should be.  This may be one
of the reasons I've been so cheerful and enthusiastic lately, and
ought to be fixable.

<p> The choices open to me, it seems: (a) hack up some kind of
persistent ifile interface (yay, another network daemon running on the
loopback interface), (b) installing some other gnus-based filter, or
(c) saying "sod it, I'll go back to spamassassin".

<p> Someone on the Gnus team seems to have taken the unix
mechanism-not-policy thing to heart.  Here's a tip: just because you
have the full power of Lisp as your configuration language is no
reason to make people have to read your entire source code just to
find out how to make your program work at all.  If it's actually
possible to use spam-stat to classify incoming mail into different
folders for spam vs non-spam, it's seriously non-obvious from the info
file.  Spam filtering is, unfortunately, a <b>basic requirement</b> of
a mail reader these days: a mail reader that doesn't do it out of the
box will soon be about as useful as a mail reader that doesn't use 
a pager of some kind to display messages a screen at a time.  Still,
this is CVS gnus so carping about the intallation is perhaps unfair if
they haven't had time to work on it yet.  

<p> So, instead, I've reverted to spamassassin/spamd.  It's just about
usable after setting <tt>OPTIONS="-c -m 1"</tt> in
<tt>/etc/default/spamassassin</tt> (though putting 600 messages
through it using formail it still managed to push the loadavg to 63
briefly and then give me "Can't fork" messages, so I don't think
that's the whole answer).  It still does a worse job of identifying
spam based on looking at the entire message body than I can based on
the header alone.  And for each incoming message I have <tt>inetd</tt>
spawn <tt>sendmail</tt> (actually Exim) spawn <tt>sh</tt> spawn
<tt>spamc | procmail</tt>.  So, Exim reads the message from the
network and outputs it to spamc.  spamc reads it and outputs it to
spamd.  spamd reads it and outputs it, suitably mutilated, to spamc.
spamc reads it and outputs it to procmail.  procmail reads it and
outputs it to disk.  And this is the <i>normal</i> way of arranging
things, if the documentation is to be believed.

<p>I read, sometimes, in <a href="http://www.lwn.net/">LWN</a>, about
the marvellous things the kernel developers are doing to reduce the
context switch time or process startup time, or the amount of copying
done to move packets around the network stack, and I can only conclude
that it's all a complete and utter waste of time when this is the kind
of crap that people build on top of it.

<p>Still, if it means I can start my working day tomorrow without ten
messages from someone eager to tell me that he/she "jammed the
babysitter" (what is this, CB radio?) maybe it's all worthwhile.

<p>Roll on pervasive PGP, really.  If you should ever bump into me
physically, ask for my key fingerprint, because I am
<tt>-&gt;&lt;-</tt> this close to whitelisting signed mail from real
people and letting everything else queue up in the "Things to do -
urgent" folder.
