title: The TODO list is looking entirely prosaic right now:
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Sat, 17 May 2003 4:24:23 +0000

The TODO list is looking entirely prosaic right now: 

<ul>
<li> article for Linux User magazine on something to do with CLiki
(needs finishing)

<li> paper for UKUUG conference (needs starting)

<li> book proposal, revisions to

<li> try to work out if I want to/have the time to/can afford to go to
Metz for the <a href="http://rencontresmondiales.org/" >LSM2003</a>,
and if so how much of the UKUUG paper I can recycle and how much I
need to write fresh. 

</li>
</ul>

<p>So <i>obviously</i> this is a good time to spend a week looking at
SBCL 64 bit issues.  In fact I can't think of a more productive use of
time, provided I discount almost anything else involving a computer in
some way.  As of my most recent checkin, though, we're at the point
where

<ul>
<li> the runtime support builds
<li> all the Lisp files build in the crosscompiler
<li> the initial image can be written out
<li> the initial image is loaded into the runtime, and starts
executing.  Even calls functions and stuff
<li> but dies fairly quickly when we start doing floating point
</li>
</ul>

<pre>
&lt;dan_b> 0x00000000321b927c in ?? ()
&lt;dan_b> 0x321B8FE0: MAKE-HASH-TABLE   #X321B8FC9
&lt;dan_b> 0x321BB140: HASH-TABLE-COUNT   #X321BB129
&lt;Krystof> Cooool
&lt;dan_b> this brings back memories
&lt;Krystof> yeah, we have been here(tm)
</pre>

The particular memories I have in mind are from summer/autumn 2000
when I first started the SBCL Alpha port, and I think I was stuck with
a problem in this area for some few months.  I expect this time it'll
be a matter of days or possibly even hours; what's frightening here is
the realisation of how long ago those days were and how long I must
have spent reading SBCL code since then.  If I'd devoted the same
amount of time to gcc, I'd probably be rich by now.  Or, anyway, richer.

<p>Nobody reported any interesting bugs in the sbcl prerelease last
month, so we'll probably go ahead and do a 0.8 this month.  Which
means code freeze in about three days time, which means it's time to
turn my attention to some threading cleanups this weekend.
<i>Definitely</i> time to stop messing around with 64 bit support.

