title: Still alive, not that you'd notice
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Tue, 8 Jul 2003 14:42:44 +0000

Still alive, not that you'd notice.  A couple of URLs for your reading
pleasure:

<ul>
<li> <a href="http://blackbox.cs.fit.edu/blog/kaner/archives/000056.html"
>IEEE's "Body of Knowledge" for Software Engineering</a>
<blockquote>
The SWEBOK is written as the basis for licensing exams for
professional software engineers. If your state requires you to get a
license to practice software engineering (and more will, if they are
convinced that they can create fair exams based on a consensus
document from the profession), the SWEBOK is the document you will
have to study.
<p>
I am most familiar with SWEBOK\x{2019}s treatments of software
testing, software quality and metrics. It endorses practices that I
consider wastefully bureaucratic, document-intensive, tedious, and in
commercial software development, not likely to succeed. These are the
practices that some software process enthusiasts have tried and tried
and tried and tried and tried to ram down the throats of the software
development community, with less success than they would like.
</p></blockquote></li>
<li> <a href="http://www.tomrobinson.com/work/advice.htm"
>Tom Robinson on the music industry</a>
<blockquote>
By far the most important factor in a successful artist's career has
to do with identity and focus - in a word, PACKAGING - the one area
musicians most often neglect. [...]
<p>
For music fans, wearing an Oasis T-shirt or getting a Skunk Anansie
tattoo is a public statement about who they are. Others impress their
friends with Pavarotti or Sting CD's at a dinner party, while Billy
Bragg has always carefully packaged himself for people who loathe
packaging...
</p></blockquote></li>
</ul>