title: So the latest released version of CLiki doesn't work in current SBCL,
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Fri, 28 Nov 2003 4:37:17 +0000

So the latest released version of CLiki doesn't work in current SBCL,
and the instructions are out of date w.r.t the current Araneida.
Planning to release a new version which fixes both these problems 
imminently (as in, probably about Monday).

There's also a ton of other changes, which is why I'm preannouncing
it.  Anyone who wants to play with collaborative content editing this
weekend is invited to check it out from CVS: instructions at <a
href="http://cvs.telent.net/" >http://cvs.telent.net/</a>.  There's a
new example.lisp file which should get you up and running with minimum
effort: I'm pretty sure CLiki gets easier to install with every new
version.

Bug reports, suggestions, queries welcome.  From the NEWS file -

<pre>
New in CLiki 0.4.1

* Update README file to correspond to Araneida 0.81, and add
  example.lisp demonstrating a simple CLiki installation

* Change CLIKI-INSTANCE class graph.  Now we have CLIKI-VIEW as a parent
  of CLIKI-INSTANCE.  The approximate division is that CLIKI-VIEW deals
  with the visual aspects and CLIKI-INSTANCE deals with updating and
  saving data

* CLIKI-SKIN is a new CLIKI-VIEW subclass demonstrating a way to make
  a second look and feel for an existing cliki.

* New CLIKI-PAGE-SURROUND method replaces CLIKI-PAGE-HEADER and
  CLIKI-PAGE-FOOTER.  WITH-PAGE-SURROUND macro allows any response
  handler to reasonably conveniently use the standard surround for
  some cliki it's associated with

* New class AUTHED-CLIKI does cookie-based authentication for clikis that 
  you don't want just anyone to edit.  Badly, though.  Feel free to send
  patches

* At last, proper escaping of page pathnames.  Page titles may now contain
  interesting characters like #\#, #\., #\+ etc

  If you have any pages stored in files with even mildly interesting 
  names, they will change: what was "Foo Bar" is now "Foo=20Bar", for
  example.  The old names are still read, and updated to new names on
  SAVE-PAGE (i.e. after edits)

* #\Space and #\_ are treated as equivalent in page names, just as #\A
  and #\a are.

* SAVE-PAGE is now a GF specialkised on CLIKI-VIEW.  Might be usable
  for e.g. database-backed clikis.

* Bug fix: admin/recent-changes.dat is created if not found

* Some HTML cleanup
</pre>

<p> I also fixed the QUIT behaviour of SBCL to be ... well, different
again.  This probably broke sb-aclrepl and anyone else creating new
sessions (ELI, I think), but the good news is that they can replace
their old crufty code with new slightly less crufty code.


