title: The cirCLe CD is on hold pending a rethink
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Tue, 25 Nov 2003 15:37:44 +0000

<p>The cirCLe CD is on hold pending a rethink.  Response from the
survey showed lots (well, some few tens) of existing CL users who
thought it would be neat, plus a few people who might want to try it
for curiosity's sake (personal favourite: the person who wanted a
Genera clone for $25) but neither of these is sufficient evidence of a
sustainable market.  Maybe I'm asking the wrong questions; almost
certainly I'm asking them in the wrong place.

<p>So, Marketing 101: products have <i>features</i> but customers
actually want <i>benefits</i>.  (Unless, for some reason, the feature
in question is XML, but I digress).  So, what are the <i>benefits</i>
of Lisp?  What's our USP?

<p>I think the answer is <b>interactive development</b>: in particular
for Web application development, where the usual state of the art
seems to be either error reporting on the web page itself (which is a
start, provided you can turn it off in production - do you want your
customers reading your backtraces?)  or dumping stuff in a log file.
So I've been experimenting with SLIME and Araneida with the intention
that (a) errors in Araneida handlers can be debugged using the Slime
debugger, (b) Slime can connect across the network (SSH-tunnelled) to
a long-lived server process.  Some progress to report on (a): it
works, but nothing is in CVS yet

<p>Also today, set up a Paypal account: <b>dan@metacircles.com</b>.  Not
altogether sure what I'm hoping that people will send me money for: if
you've solved a problem (or just enjoyed) using CLiki or SBCL
(threads, sockets, CLX, Alpha, PPC) or Araneida or cclan or asdf or
detachtty or ... and want to fund further development, now you have a
mechanism.  It might also be a good idea if you sent me email saying
which of these you're using: not that your $40 is going to
significantly influence my development whim, but in the aggregate your
collective $4000 might.

<p>Thanks, by the way, go to Erik Enge for renewing the cliki.net
domain when i managed to miss the reminders for it.
