title: I have spam filtering again, and this time it's filtered server-side
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Fri, 7 Nov 2003 14:9:40 +0000

I have spam filtering again, and this time it's filtered server-side.
This makes me happy, or at least less readily depressed when I get up
and see 200 new mails of which approximately 5 are at all likely to be
interesting to me.

<p>My mail is delivered to a shell host using SMTP.  I pull it onto my
laptop using fetchmail and "ssh shell /usr/sbin/imapd" when I want to
read it.  Then emacs Gnus splits it into folders for me.  I like this
setup: I have all my mail archives to hand locally when I'm away from
the net, and if I have some form of shell access but no way to get my
laptop on the net I can still read new mail using mutt on the server.
So I added procmail on the server to pipe through spambayes then
filter spam into its own folder, then added a line in fetchmailrc on
the client to download that folder (not automatically, but just in
case) then stuck two new keys in gnus to retrain spambayes when it
misses something - by, uh, ssh into the server host and spitting the
article contents into sb_filter.py.  Yeah, I know, it's tacky.  

<pre>
(defun spambayes-train-spam (&optional arg)
  (interactive (gnus-interactive "P"))
  (let ((gnus-default-article-saver 
	 (lambda (x) 
	   (gnus-summary-save-in-pipe
	    "ssh eval.metacircles.com /home/dan/python/bin/sb_filter.py -s -f")))
	(gnus-save-all-headers t))
    (gnus-summary-save-article arg t)))
</pre>

As is common with any kind of Unix mail setup stuff there are seven
zillion possible different ways to do it and I tried several before
settling on this one.  Most of the wasted time was in trying to get
Gnus to do disconnected IMAP support, which was basically pain.  Some
of it was installing Python from source three times (the debian stable
packages are too old to run spambayes): the first two builds were
missing dbm and zlib respectively owing to missing header files. 

<p>It seems to be working pretty well, so far, and should definitely
makes mornings a bit less insta-bad-mood.

