title: Some interesting comments on the cirCle CD already
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Fri, 3 Oct 2003 12:2:34 +0000

Some interesting comments on the <a
href="http://web.metacircles.com/circle+cd" >cirCle CD</a> already.
I'll send out a mail to the announcement list in a week or so when
it's a bit clearer what shape things are taking, but for the moment
let's answer a few of the early questions here:

<ol>
<li> <b>Documentation</b> is something I'm quite keen on.  The out-of-the-box
install will bring up a web server with all the docs I can get my
hands on and legally distribute.  Yes, sadly the Hyperspec is not one
of these documents; either there'll be an installer package that
downloads it from the net, or we'll do something ourselves starting
with the ANSI final draft or the GCL texinfo (which appears to have
been taken from the same place).

<li> Several requests for an <b>ILISP</b> configuration that works out of the
box, so that's a priority.  I'm also planning to hook as much of the
documentation (see above) as possible to ILISP, so that users can
look up documentation for symbol at point even when that symbol is in
some other package than COMMON-LISP.

<li> <b>Sources</b> for everything will be included.  This is because (a)
it's a jolly good idea anyway, and (b) for GPLed components (like
Emacs) the alternative is a written offer valid for three years to
provide them at cost.

<li> You don't <i>have</i> to use it as a live filesystem.  If you
have an <b>existing Linux installation</b>, the intent is that you can just
install it - subject to kernel version, shared library issues and the
rest of the happy fun ball of wax that is Linux compatibility.  Yes, I
know about the LSB.  No, it's not sufficient - at least last time I
looked, it doesn't specify PostgreSQL shared library versions, to take
one example.

<li> The live fs is <b>Knoppix</b>-based, but isn't going to include all the
Knoppix apps and games - we'll need the space for source code.  The
point of using Knoppix is for the hardware detection, which seems to
be pretty much universally praised.

</ol>
