title: New Araneida finally out of the door
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Mon, 10 Nov 2003 5:25:22 +0000

New Araneida finally out of the door. 
<pre>

Bcc: dan
To: lispweb@red-bean.com
Subject: ANNOUNCE: release Araneida 0.80
X-Draft-From: ("nnml+private:mail.lists.sbcl-devel" 3030)
From: Daniel Barlow <dan@telent.net>
Date: Mon, 10 Nov 2003 05:25:01 +0000
Message-ID: <874qxckd76.fsf@noetbook.telent.net>
--text follows this line--
<#secure method=pgpmime mode=sign>

Araneida 0.80 has been released to ftp.linux.org.uk and is now making
its way to whichever CCLAN mirrors are actually still maintained.
From the release notes:

* New HTTP-LISTENER abstraction drastically improves the threaded
  variant of Araneida, and also replaces a lot of older ad-hocky code
  and global variables.  The following are at least obsolete, and may
  not even exist any more

  - The 'server' stuff: export-server etc
  - *root-handler*
  - install-{thread,serve-event}-handlers, remove-handlers

* Raising HTTP errors from handlers is now accomplished in a far
  cleaner fashion, by signalling CL conditions.  (This also means that
  parent handlers may handle these conditions to provide e.g. custom
  404 pages).  A condition exists for each 4xx and 5xx HTTP response code

* Add REFRESH header to REQUEST-SEND-HEADERS; sends the not-quite-HTTP
  'Refresh: ' header (really, not part of HTTP/1.0 or 1.1: it appears to
  have been a Netscape extension)

* Fix packaging problem in 0.72

* ... and even compiles (in fact, only compiles) in current SBCL versions


This version of Araneida requires source code changes in your
application - although not terribly pervasive ones; unless there are
vastly more Araneida users than I'm aware of, I felt it would be
quicker for users to update their configuration than for me to provice
legacy compatibility routines.  There is a complete and working
example of Araneida configuration in doc/example.lisp: it should be
about three lines for most people.

Feedback appreciated.  


-dan

-- 

   http://web.metacircles.com/cirCLe_CD - Free Software Lisp/Linux distro


</pre> Yay.  I can probably go to bed
now.
