title: The votes for a simple ILISP setup are still coming in
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Sun, 5 Oct 2003 3:21:34 +0000

The votes for a simple ILISP setup are still coming in.  Surprise
surprise, yes.

<p>I've been looking at Knoppix, and starting to learn enough about it
to beat it into a shape I like.  Knoppix is an ISO9660 image, which
contains another, compressed, ISO filesystem.  The inner filesystem is
the root of the running system and contains about 2Gb of software.
The outer filesystem gets mounted on /cdrom during the boot process
and holds a few other files such as X root window images which are
presumably put there for ease of alteration.

<p>So, to hack it around you basically unpack the ISO, unpack the
inner ISO, chroot into it and fiddle with dpkg/apt-get/whatever else,
then pack it all back up again.  There appear to be a number of 
graphical tools for this, but I'm using a shell script originally
found at
<a
href="http://www.informatik.uni-koeln.de/ls_juenger/people/lange/software/mkmyknoppix"
>http://www.informatik.uni-koeln.de/ls_juenger/people/lange/software/mkmyknoppix</a>
but which is slowly mutating as I find other things I want it to
do/not do.  

<p>The repacking phase takes about 20 minutes, which makes things a
little tedious to test.  Fortunately VMWare Workstation will boot from
ISO images without needing to burn them first, so at least I don't
need to add the CD writing time and cost of blank to that for every
iteration.  Unless Bochs can do something similar (and emulate svga
and some species of ethernet device) I can see having to pay for this
sometime in the next 30 days.  Why is it that <i>all</i> the software
I buy these days is for emulation?

<p> So, chief concern right now is licensing; I want all the source
code to be available in a GPL-compliant way (enough of the Knoppix
packages are GPLed that it makes no sense to try and separate out the
source-required packages).  So far I've managed to get the filesystem
down to around 770MB uncompressed (no KDE, no applications) or 280Mb
compressed.  If dpkg is not telling fibs, sources for this will be
about 600MB: gzipped tarballs, gzipped diffs and .dsc files, so I
don't think that's going to compress significantly further.  If I can
find really not a lot more space it looks like we might actually be
able to get the whole thing ona  single disc, which will make life a
lot simpler

<p>What's slightly worrying is that I just noticed a /usr/lib/j2se
directory that dpkg -S doesn't acknowledge the existence of.  On the
bright side, I can probably just delete it - nothing important will
ever depend on java - but I'm concerned that there may be other stuff
in there that the package system doesnt know about.

