title: cl-ppcre is a portable CL
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Sun, 24 Aug 2003 7:16:35 +0000

<a href="http://www.cliki.net/cl-ppcre" >cl-ppcre</a> is a portable CL
package providing perl-compatible regexps.  There are two things I'd
like to say about it on the basis of ten minutes use

<ol>
<li> It's asdf-packaged.  Although it's not in cclan, which means I
can't download it with asdf-install because I haven't got a trust
relationship with Edi Wietz' PGP key, I can download it from the page
and then painlessly install it from local disk.
<pre>
* (asdf-install:install "/home/dan/cl-ppcre.tgz")
Install where?
1) System-wide install: 
   System in #P"/usr/local/lib/sbcl/site-systems/"
   Files in #P"/usr/local/lib/sbcl/site/" 
2) Personal installation: 
   System in #P"/home/dan/.sbcl/systems/"
   Files in #P"/home/dan/.sbcl/site/" 
 --> 2
Installing /home/dan/cl-ppcre.tgz in #P"/home/dan/.sbcl/site/",#P"/home/dan/.sbcl/systems/"
cl-ppcre-0.5.7/
[ ... and so it goes ]
</pre>

</li>
<li> Although billed as perl-compatible, that doesn't mean you have to
use the Perl syntax: you can also write regexes as trees.  For example

<pre>
(defparameter *postcode-p*
  (let ((a '(:CHAR-CLASS (:RANGE #\a #\z)))
	(n :digit-class)
	(s '(:GREEDY-REPETITION 0 NIL :WHITESPACE-CHAR-CLASS)))
    (cl-ppcre:create-scanner
     `(:alternation
       (:sequence ,a ,n       ,s  ,N ,A ,A)
       (:sequence ,A ,N ,N    ,s  ,N ,A ,A)
       (:sequence ,A ,A ,N    ,s  ,N ,A ,A)
       (:sequence ,A ,A ,N ,N ,s  ,N ,A ,A)
       (:sequence ,A ,N ,A    ,s  ,N ,A ,A)
       (:sequence ,A ,A ,N ,A ,s  ,N ,A ,A)))))

* (cl-ppcre:scan *postcode-p* "w1y 1ha")
0
7
#()
#()
* 
</pre>

That's a regex for UK postcodes (actually, not quite.  I should add
the special case for GIR 0AA, which apparently is Alliance &amp;
Leicester Girobank Plc in Bootle).  Isn't it just much easier to see
what it does as a tree?
</li>
</ol>
