title: Having successfully thought myself back into the role of SBCL
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Mon, 18 Aug 2003 12:51:40 +0000

Having successfully thought myself back into the role of SBCL
maintainer on Saturday, I decided it would be nice to fix the
longstanding (well, few-months-old) bug that finalisers don't.  This
is actually a symptom of a more general problem: that I removed all
the GC hooks completely because the way we were running them wasn't
thread-safe.

<pre>
  PID USER      PR  NI  VIRT  RES  SHR S %CPU %MEM    TIME+  Command           
17849 dan        9   0  150m  72m  896 S  0.0 58.5  10:17.89 gdb               

(gdb) info bre
Num Type           Disp Enb Address    What
9   hw watchpoint  keep y              *(int *) 1079316548
(gdb) cont
Continuing.
Error evaluating expression for watchpoint 9
Error accessing memory address 0x40551044: No such process.
Watchpoint 9 deleted.
Couldn't write debug register: No such process.
(gdb) <b>^D</b>
A debugging session is active.
Do you still want to close the debugger?(y or n) y
Detaching from program: /home/dan/src/sourceforge/sbcl/src/runtime/sbcl, process 17967
ptrace: No such process.
(gdb) 
</pre>

<p>It kind of works.  It works up until the point that the
pseudo-atomic-interrupted flag mysteriously sets itself without saving
the handler/signal/siginfo etc that is supposed to be saved when a PA
section is interrupted, so we jump to zero and go boom.

<p>But now it really really is time to return to my assault on CLiki
and related stuff, and then investigate programmatic interfaces to <a
href="http://www.streetmap.co.uk" >Streetmap</a> (which I think may
involve XML somewhere).

