title: cirCLe CD update,
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Mon, 27 Oct 2003 0:21:41 +0000

<a href="http://web.metacircles.com/circle_cd">cirCLe CD</a> update,
for everyone wondering.  I'll probably make an announcement on the
mailing list this week as well.

<p>Having decided to <b>ditch Knoppix</b> I find that I can get a
working Linux (running X, apache, sawfish, mozilla-firebird and emacs,
which is more or less what's needed) into ~120Mb after compression.
The sources for this lot weigh in at around 380Mb, so it's looking for
the moment as if I can get the whole thing on a <b>single disc</b>.
Some sacrifices have had to be made in the process: we autodetect your
ethernet card, sound card (not that we use it for anything), mouse,
video, etc, but if you have some more exotic hardware (usb cablemodem,
isdn, pppoe thingy) we don't support that out of the box.  I'd like to
add support for wireless ethernet at least; we'll see how it goes.

<p>Contrary to the initial announcement, it will use <b>SLIME</b>, not ILISP.  

<p>If you install it on a real system (as I hope that most serious
users eventually will), the package names are chosen to <b>avoid
conflict with existing packages</b> (unless you have existing packages
whose names start <tt>circle-</tt>, in which case you still face
problems), and it all goes into /opt/circle-2003-1, so in the worst
case you can still dispose of it pretty easily with <tt>rm</tt>.
There are actually only a couple of "vendor" packages in there: most
of it is installed from source with asdf-install.

<p>I've been playing with Linux USB storage support recently, and
although it works most of the time I'm not altogether confident about
its stability (yesterday's highlight: I managed to get a Zip disk and
a USB floppy both pretending to be scsi1 at the same time).  There
will be some way from the live CD to mount existing filesystems and
<b>save work/preferences/settings</b>, but depending on your hardware, the
phase of the moon, etc, you may have to approach this with some degree
of caution.

<p>Current status: <b>CD works</b> and boots on my hardware.  Packages
created for <b>sbcl</b>, <b>araneida</b>, <b>cl-ppcre</b>,
<b>cliki</b>, <b>clx</b>, <b>detachtty</b>, and <b>split</b>-sequence.
None of them tested (some of them known to break, in fact).  An
optimistic timetable would be "end of November", a more realistic one
would be "2004".

<p>Oh, for the curious, I stopped using xnest after attempting to
start it over a non-local connection.  Now using <b>VNC</b> instead.
This is basically for my own development purposes, but I'm very much
tempted to leave it in on the finished CD (in a completely unsupported
and undocumented fashion) just because I think it's kind of neat.  All
sotware has Easter eggs, right?
