title: Sourceforge is just so awesome
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Wed, 8 Oct 2003 21:9:34 +0000

<p>Sourceforge is just so awesome.

<p>There's a project called SLIME, the Superior Lisp Interaction Mode
(Enhanced).  It's existed for about <a
href="http://lemonodor.com/archives/000552.html" >a month or so</a>,
and reportedly seeing a lot of hacking.  Observe this <a
href="http://news.gmane.org/gmane.lisp.slime.devel">mailing list
archive</a>, for example.  Note several posts per day, and obvious
evidence of <a
href="http://article.gmane.org/gmane.lisp.slime.devel/19" >ongoing
development</a>.

<p>Now see that it all stops suddenly on 29th September.  What
possible reason might there be for this?  Why, it was <a
href="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&atid=200001&aid=820064&group_id=1"
>due to inactivity</a>, of course.  Sourceforge knows all.

<p>On further investigation it turns out to be <a
href="https://sourceforge.net/search/?type_of_search=artifact&exact=1&forum_id=1&group_id=1&atid=200001&words=slime">a
little more complicated</a>.  Back in 2000 there was an unrelated
project on sourceforge called Slime, which the author at the time
decided to <a
href="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=1&atid=200001&func=detail&aid=309492"
>delete</a>.  Three years later, after the project name had been <a
href="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=1&atid=200001&func=detail&aid=799150"
>taken over</a> by the current crew, Sourceforge presumably decide
that this would be a good time to implement the deletion.  

<p>I'm semi-impressed that the same member of Sourceforge staff can
forget what's going on in the week between <a href=
"https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=1&atid=200001&func=detail&aid=815334"
>Luke Gorrie's request</a> to restore it and <a
href="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&atid=200001&aid=820064&group_id=1"
>mine</a> asking where it had gone.  Although, I guess, they deal with
too many projects to remember, and if the interface that SF staff use
to search their support database is the same one as we the public have
to put up with, I can quite understand their not wanting to touch it any
more than they can get away with.  I wouldn't.

