title: Freenode #lisp denizens, and some percentage of comp.lang.lisp readers
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Thu, 25 Sep 2003 3:45:20 +0000

<p>Freenode #lisp denizens, and some percentage of comp.lang.lisp readers
who read the article I mistakenly posted instead of mailed privately,
will know that earlier this year I was flirting with the possibility
of writing a book.  'Flirting' is not really the right term: I got as
far as producing an outline and sending it to a publisher who appeared
to like the idea, so if we're going to stick with this general
metaphor, I got as far as a dinner date and invitation back for coffee
afterwards.

<p>Actually, let's drop that metaphor.

<p>So anyway, today I'm feeling slightly up on hearing the news that
there were more than 100 participants in #lisp again (even if two of
them are me), and slightly down on hearing from the prospective
publisher, who I hope won't mind being excerpted here (this is all
public information anyway; I wouldn't post the sensitive stuff), that

<blockquote>
According to sourceforge, the i386 rpms for [GNU CLISP] 2.3.1 have been
downloaded 351 times since 8/31/03, and the 2.3.0 rpms have been downloaded
2,454 times since 9/02.  The win32 archive has been downloaded 1,436 and
11,059 times, respectively.  The other lisp projects on sourceforge have
barely been downloaded at all. 
</blockquote>

<p>(He's basically engaged in trying to figure out the size of the
potential market for a book aimed at teaching Lisp to users of other
high-level languages: Perl and Python and suchlike.  Poor soul)

<p>So I went to have a look, and modulo that I wouldn't trust
sourceforge stats further than I can throw them, he's absolutely
right.  SBCL downloads seem to average about 100 a month, though with
enough noise to make any kind of useful analysis worthless.  That's
one user for every ten developers.  Of course, there are probably also
people following CVS, and the Debian packages aren't counted in that
and may be good for a few more, but even so.  (Yes, I've looked at the
popularity-contest figures.  No, they don't cheer me up much)

<p>In fairness, I think the real reasons I'm not feeling so great
right now are (a) I still have no idea about this stupid
threading/GC/locking/whatever-it-is bug, which moves somewhere else
every time I put in any kind of code that would help me track it down,
and (b) I'm still spending too much time dealing with recruiters.  If
I knew what I was doing on at least one of these scores, I would face
with more grace and equinamity the knowledge that it's getting on for
<a href="/diary/2002/11/#25.67069" >the best part of a year </a> since
I started on the current attempt to add thread support to SBCL.


