title: So there's obviously a reason I'm converting Stargreen to the new
Araneida handler model: it's because I want to upgrade the SBCL it
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Fri, 5 Dec 2003 4:0:6 +0000

So there's obviously a reason I'm converting Stargreen to the new
Araneida handler model: it's because I want to upgrade the SBCL it
runs on to something recent and, frankly, I'm not sure the old one
works any more.  But also, I'd like to add RSS feeds to it for
forthcoming events.

<p>Which witha little assistance from Miles Egan's <a
href="http://www.cliki.net/xmls">xmls</a> library, turned out to be
the simple bit.  Now I'm reading bits of Araneida again and thinking
"I wonder why it does that".  The deal is: there are various
circumstances in which we want to abort a response early - for
example, the authentication handler decides that the user isn't, or
the response handler sees that it was that <a
href="/diary/2003/12/#2.13019">conditional GET</a> thing I was talking
about two days ago, and return 'not modified' therefore saving on all
that expensive database stuff.  We could set a flag in the request
header (the 'request' in araneida has attribues of both http request
and response: it's more of a 'transaction' object, I suppose) to say
"we've finished, don't send them any more data", but then all
subsequent stuff has to check it.  Which is silly.  If we're done
outputting, we're (except in the case that the user's request kicks
off some asynchronous computation that he gets the answer of some
other way) probably done calculating too.

<p>It appears that we have a signallable <b>response-sent</b> condition for
this situation.  In fact I even seem to have documented it.  I guess I
should probably make <b>request-send-headers</b> use it too, then.

<p>Is anyone having problems with infinitely recursive errors when
they try to retrieve pages for which there is no handler?  I was, but
it might just be me.  The problem appears to be in handle-request
(handler) where it attempts to request-send-error on a stream that's
probably not there any more, but I'm loathe to commit a fix until I've
worked out why it's also apparently pointlessly resignalling
response-sent: I want to be able to explain or remove it.  (This is
where I came in, yes).  Mail <a href="http://www.cliki.net/lispweb"
>lispweb</a> if you're seeing this too.

