title: Well, it's no longer Monday, and needless to say, there is still no
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Tue, 14 Oct 2003 1:13:10 +0000

Well, it's no longer Monday, and needless to say, there is still no
Slime on Sourceforge.

<pre>
>> as I sit here continually failing to checkout SBCL because
>> sourceforge's anonymous CVS is so broken, I wonder if our destiny
>> lies elsewhere?
>
> Well, I see on their Site Status page that they should be done with
> the new CVS infrastructure this week - so maybe it's not such a big
> deal.

I have heard that before, mind you ...

   The good news is, in the very short term, we will have a solution
   that will solve this issue. We are upgrading our hardware from one
   aging system to six new speedy boxes; this hardware is a portion
   of the new CVS infrastructure that we are implementing to improve
   CVS performance and reliability.

   The solution will be in place by the time I write you next month.

   - SOURCEFORGE.NET UPDATE - 2003-07-24 EDITION


   First, in the last sitewide email I described our CVS performance
   issues and the solution we are introducing to fix them. The
   performance increase I spoke of (600%+ increase) is just days away
   from being deployed.

   -  SOURCEFORGE.NET UPDATE - 2003-08-29 EDITION


   As of right now, we are working around the clock to get these new
   boxes online to give relief to the performance issues. Our primary
   CVS server is copying 15 million files to these six new
   machines. Since this box is also serving CVS checkins and checkouts
   to the community simultaneously, the data transfer has been slow
   going. During the last 4 days we have transfered 40% of the
   data. We expect the rest of the data to be transfered by Thursday
   of next week, and the new boxes online shortly there after.

   - SOURCEFORGE.NET UPDATE - 2003-09-30 EDITION

:; cal 
    October 2003
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa
          1  2  3  4
 5  6  7  8  9 10 11     <-   _that_ Thursday.  Yes, the one just gone.
12 13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30 31

</pre>

<blockquote>
"I love deadlines.  I love the whooshing sound they make as they go
by"
</blockquote>
<div align=right>Douglas Adams, of course</div>
