title: This entry is more in the nature of "hello, I'm still alive" than
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Sat, 28 Feb 2004 0:9:5 +0000

This entry is more in the nature of "hello, I'm still alive" than
"hey, see the cool stuff I've hacked on lately".  I suspect that
you're not so interested in the news that I think I've optimised my
route for skating from Baker St to the office (one way systems are
involved; the return journey still needs some work).

<p>In no particular order
<ul>

<li> sbcl amd64

<li> sbcl threading special variable binding changes: in the interests
of predictability, make new threads start witha default set of special
variable values/bindingsd instead of whatever the parent had.

<li> a clim-based postgresql client to kick psql's ass ($dayjob uses a
lot of postgres, so this is my excuse to install lisp on my work
machine).  It's going to interrogate posgres metadata so the user can
navigate through the database by clicking on field names, stuff like
that.  Colourised/marked up illustrations of the query plan, perhaps
some kind of interface to help with query generation, etc etc.  Lots
of ideas I haven't quite locked down that need prototyping before I
can tell if they're good ones or not.

<li> longterm handwavey project: a lisp-based "thin platform" based on
SBCL/Linux that's easily scriptable.
</ul>

Installing SBCL on my work machine provided an illustration of just
how far we've come lately.  Untar and install sbcl then 

<pre>
* (require 'asdf-install)
* (asdf-install:install 'clx)
;; fiddle with cliki for 2 minutes to add a :package link for pg
* (asdf-install:install 'pg)
</pre>

and I have graphics, sockets, and database connectivity.  McCLIM took
a little longer, but it was still pretty straightforward.  All told,
it took me less time to get lisp-based web serving environment up than
it did to install coldfusion, and that's a real commercial product.
(Actually, it took less time to install the lisp-based web serving
environment than it did just to <i>unpack</i> coldfusion, and it eats
less ram, too)

