title: Bought two new ATX power supplies; one for my usual desktop box,
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Tue, 30 Mar 2004 4:47:25 +0000

<p>Bought two new ATX power supplies; one for my usual desktop box,
and the other for the Alpha.  In principle this means I now have a
comfortable machine to resume hacking sbcl amd64 on, and I have a new
(old) loaclhost.telent.net which will host telent cvs (clx, araneida,
cliki, etc).  The plan is that <a href="http://www.clara.net/">my
wonderful employers</a> put it on their
freebie-hosting-for-employee-boxen network.

<p>Slowly rewriting the threading section of the SBCL Manual.  (a) in
texinfo, to see what it's like; (b) in English, so that other people
may see what it's like

<p>Suffering from cold-type-thing on Friday: sore throat, headache,
etc, so took tube home instead of riding.  Feeling better by Sunday,
so went skating.  Much fun, albeit at a
slightly slower pace than I'd been commuting in previous weeks.  So,
I'm going to try at least the first half of the <a
href="http://www.lfns.co.uk/" >Friday Night Skate</a> this week.  (If
you're reading this and likely to be there on Friday or Sunday, drop
me an email and I'll wear something distinctive like my purple SICP
tshirt).

<p>Lost again on way home from work today.  Careful examination of the
junction where I should have turned right, if I were riding my morning
route in reverse, revealed that it was a one-way street.  So, wandered
a little further up the road, found another right turn, rode aimlessly
for a while.  Eventually pointed myself in the right direction with
the aid of a couple of maps in convenient bus shelters.  Less lost
than Thursday, but extra time with an A-Z will still be required

<p>It's now 0:26am.  If this entry comes out dated at 5am, blame the
rtc/apm handling in Linux 2.6, which has a nasty intermittent tendency 
to decide that it can get through two seconds in as long as it takes
the wall clock to dispatch just one.  In the fact of that kind of
drift, ntp just curls into a foetal position and whimpers.


