title: I see that LWN has got its predictions for what happens to Linux in
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Wed, 31 Dec 2003 16:56:22 +0000

I see that LWN has got its predictions for what happens to Linux in
2004 up.  Inspired by that, I'm going to make some predictions of my
own about Lisp in 2004

<ul>
<li> 2004 will <i>not</i> be the "Year of Lisp".  When was the Year of
Linux?  The Year of the Internet?  The Year of the LAN (remember that
one?)  Exactly.  2004 will be the year that some number of people
suddenly realise they can use Lisp to solve their problems, and it
will be a bigger number than had the same realisation last year, and
2005 will have more still.  But that doesn't make either (any) of them the
Year of Lisp.

<li> SBCL will get callback support, and threads on some non-x86
platform (most likely PPC).  It's kind of cheating for me to make 
SBCL predictions, though, so expect more when I've talked to
Christophe and we've decided what we want to do.

<li> Sometime after it gets its CVS repository back on the net, CMUCL
will release 19a, which will have approximately what the current CMUCL
CVS versions have in them.  The CMUCL project suffers hosting problems
on an approximately two-yearly basis, so will not seriously drop off
the net again until 2005.

<li> Gary Byers will tire of the low takeup of OpenMCL 0.14
pre-releases and will label it an official release so that users
actually get it and start beating on the native threads support
seriously.  No major problems will result.

<li> SLIME will replace ILISP as the "default" emacs interface for
free Lisps.  It will gain thread support.

<li> MCCLIM will progress from its current status as the project that
everyone admires and nobody actually uses, to a new position as a
project that everyone installs to play with the Listener, but doesn't
then use for anything serious.  This will not change until a real
application (probably Maxima) is released that depends on it.  Lots of
talking and approximately no hacking will be done on a CLIM-based
editor/IDE, and a CLIM Gtk backend.

<li> A "major" Linux distribution (i.e. Red Hat or SUSE) will follow
the lead set by Debian, Gentoo and Slackware, and put a decent
general-purpose CL system (CMUCL or SBCL) into their distribution

<li> They'll screw it up by having someone do it who doesn't actually
<i>use</i> Lisp, so it'll be (a) an old version, (b) a brand-new
release which is missing the rushed post-release patches that actually
make it work, (c) compiled with really dumb compilation options (SBCL
without threads, or CMUCL with incorrect source paths, or similar), or
(d) missing bits (like the FreeBSD SBCL port has no contrib).
Maintainers of whichever CL it is will bemoan the fact that the distro
fouled it up so badly.  The distro hacker will claim that he asked for
advice on IRC/usenet but everyone was too busy arguing about politics
and/or Norway to give him an answer.  People will look back through
Dejanews or the IRC logs and find his question, which was written at
the end of a 16 hour day wrestling with some out-of-date tarball from
Sunsite and started with "Why is this stuff all so totally
undocumented, broken, and completely fucking incomprehensible.  Lisp
sucks" and escalated from there.  Everyone will take sides.  A bug
will be reported in the vendor's bug reporting system, which will be
closed with the tag 'WONTFIX' or local equivalent.

<p>(Note: it doesn't <i>have</i> to go that way.  Red Hat and SUSE
hackers are warmly invited to introduce themselves as such on the
relevant development lists and ask for packaging advice.  We're
friendly enough if we don't think we're being trolled, and it's in all
our interests to get decent quality packages into the major
distributions)

<li> comp.lang.lisp will become still more offtopic and still less
useful.  At least one defender of proprietary Lisp development and one
prominent free Lisp hacker will blow up loudly and publicly and swear
that he is leaving {cll, usenet, Lisp, software} forever.  Nobody will
believe him, though many will claim to.

<p>(Hmm.  How public have I been about my departure from cll?  I
expect it's temporary until I get broadband sorted out again, but
after an hour playing with Dejanews yesterday I have to admit I'm not
missing it <i>much</i>.  But it's still 6 hours before 2004 as I write
this, so you should probably look for another free Lisp hacker anyway)

<li> Peter Siebel's book will be released, making many people happy
and me jealous.

<li> Sourceforge will suffer some major and long-term screwage,
affecting many free Lisp projects.  By the time it returns to normal
service 
<ul>

<li> SBCL and ECL will have moved elsewhere

<li> CCLAN as a brand name will have been largely forgotten, but asdf
and asdf-install will be moved to common-lisp.net.

<li> ILISP probably won't have noticed.
</ul>

<li> I haven't heard anything about ILC 2004 yet; I don't know what
the plans are.  I do know that Ray de Lacaze did an absolute ton of
work last year and I was sorry to miss it.  Whether ILC happens or
not this year, I predict more Lisp presence at other conferences,
including LSM/RMLL, UKUUG, LinuxTAG etc.

<li> Probable vapourware in 2004: CL-Emacs (unless Gilbert resurfaces
or Luke Gorrie gets into it), productized cirCLe, an SMTP server with
Bayesian spam filtering, another LispOS and another attempt at a c.l.l
FAQ
</li>
</ul>