title: The other day I had a questionnaire by email (16 lines of text in
agency which among other things asks:
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Mon, 15 Dec 2003 22:9:45 +0000

<p>The other day I had a questionnaire by email (16 lines of text in
only <i>64k</i> of MIME-encoded Word document) from a recruitment
agency which among other things asks:

<ul>
<li> Experience with Unix?
<li> How many years?
<li> How strong are you?
</ul>

<p> I'm sorely tempted to answer "A few quite unsavoury episodes but
on the whole mostly positive", "seven, with time off for good
behaviour", and "can lift own weight".  

<p> Really, how hard can it be to ask questions that would actually
tell you something about the candidate?  You want to know about Perl?
Ask what their favourite CPAN module is, and why (or whether they've
written one, and what it does).  You want to know about Linux?  Ask
them which distribution they'd recommend, or what they most like about
the 2.6 kernel.  $RDBMS?  Ask how (in the case of MySQL, the more
adversarial may substute "whether") it compares to $OTHER_RDBMS.  

<ul>
<li> It'd take a few minutes to fill out, but no longer than I'm now going
to have to spend deliberating on whether my Linux abilities (I have
debugged my userland signal handling code by inserting printks in the
kernel/I did not write the kernel code in question - or any
significant part of the rest of the kernel) should be classed as
"intermediate", "advanced", "expert", "guru", or "minor deity".  Some
people will worship anything, after all.

<li> It'd take a few minutes to mark, too, but then (a) you'd get
fewer responses to start with, and (b) who's <i>really</i> going to
rate themselves as anything less than "advanced" on the job's core
required skills?  At least the answers would mean something
</ul>

<p> Is it fair to expect agencies to know this stuff?  For 20% of the
first year's salary, there's some kind of case to be made along those
lines, yes.  I certainly think it's not unreasonable to expect them to
know when they <i>don't</i> know, and spend some time in constructive
discussion with the client to rectify this.

<p>(They also want to know if I can "raw code" HTML.  In the privacy
of my own home, yes, but I think I'd get arrested if I tried it in
public and as far as I know "but I'm a web designer" is not an
admissible defence against a charge of indecent exposure.

<p> Look Ma, no "stand up in court" double entendres.  What?  Damn.)

<p> For the record, some of the agencies I've met or talked with in
the last couple of months have been doing pretty useful jobs: they're
often filtering several hundred inappropriate applications for a
single job, and then they're phoning the potential employer regularly
to chivvy them into actually making a decision.  Because, to be
honest, some potential employers could probably go for months or years
with this potential completely untapped, if it weren't for someone to
call them up periodically and press them to make their mind up.  I do
think there's a place for them (and to forestall the obvious
rejoinder, I don't think it <i>has</i> to be the second circle of
hell) but there do seem to be more than a few places where the
recruiter-client relationship is not all it could be, and everyone
suffers as a result.

<p> Another job description I'm looking at now says that "Candidates
with experience of Pearl will be at an advantage".  Who's Pearl? Would
I like her?

