title: Random bits of post-LSM notes, many inconsequential
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Sat, 10 Jul 2004 23:39:30 +0000

Random bits of post-LSM notes, many inconsequential.

<ul>

<li> The weather was alternately bright warm sunshine and torrential
rain.  The alternation was on a period of two hours or so: at least,
it was quite rare that the ground actually dried out

<li> That notwithstanding, I think I've got at least the basics of
T-stopping by dragging the right foot, and of 180 degree anticlockwise
spins.  (Previously I've only been a ble to do left foot and/or
clockwise, so it's nice to be moving back towards symmetry)

<li> There is a brand-new tram system in Bordeaux which runs out as
far as the University.  On <strike>a</strike> <i>the</i> good day, at
least.  On all the other days, getting into town involved a bus
replacement service for at least part of the journey.  Still,
apparently it was only launched a week ago, so this is probably all
just teething trouble.

<li>The food was pretty excellent

<li>Rough order of events :
<br> Tuesday: formal presentations
<br> Wednesday: de facto standards process discussion, and 
debate about how to produce a CL Emacs
<br> Thursday: lightning presentations
<br> Friday: impromptu GPG keysigning session, creation and CVS upload
of <a href="http://www.common-lisp.net/project/phemlock/" >Portable
Hemlock</a> to common-lisp.net
</li>
</ul>

I have some thoughts about Protocol-Oriented Programming (one of the
topics touched on in the formal presentation on Tuesday) and Smalltalk
(the other people in our track on Tuesday), which will wait for
another diary entry.  There's also much more to say about the
protostandards stuff, which is waiting on the others involved to reply
to their email, and about lightning presentations, but Christophe
Rhodes is collating that not me.

<p>Oh, yeah.  And I have an (entirely untested) first cut at a
BORDEAUX-MP implementation for SBCL, which will shortly be committed
to CVS
