title: For the past few years I've been sneering at PHP
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Wed, 14 Apr 2004 18:6:20 +0000

For the past few years I've been sneering at <a
href="http://www.ukuug.org/events/linux2002/papers/html/php/" >PHP</a>
based mostly on little more than a cursory glance back in the late
1990s sometime.  As I recall, after realising it had different
database glue functions for each kind of supported database - instead
of using some kind of switch a la Perl's DBI - I fairly swiftly
decided it wasn't for me.  That impression has since been reinforced
by Aaron Crane's UKUUG presentation (link above) and <a href=
"http://www.advogato.org/article/574.html#1" >Rasmus Lerdorf's
infamous comment</a> on compiler technologies.

<p>Well, for one reason and another (day job) it's time to revisit
that decision, so expect bits of PHP to be littering this diary in
future days.  The rules are that I will only be commenting on things
which I find either significantly clever or apparently stupid, but I
reserve the right to demonstrate apparent stupidity to the world
without having first investigating whether said stupidity vests in PHP
or in me.  So, first up is this entry in php.ini:

<pre>
; When floats &amp; doubles are serialized store serialize_precision significant
; digits after the floating point. The default value ensures that when
; are decoded with unserialize, the data will remain the same.
serialize_precision = 100
</pre>

Even supposing that there's some reason the numbers have to be
serialised readably and you can't just save the bits (unless PHP is
expected to run on non-IEEE systems, I think this is unlikely), it
still only takes 
<a
href="http://www.google.com/search?q=printing+floating+point+numbers"
>two minutes with Google</a> to find a better approach.
