title: Ray de Lacaze
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Tue, 22 Jun 2004 18:57:0 +0000

<p><a href="http://lemonodor.com/archives/000835.html">Ray de Lacaze
resigns as ALU president</a>.  If you read Lemonodor you'll have
picked this up already; if you read Planet Lisp, likewise but you'll
have missed the comments, which I hope will shortly become an
interesting debate about wat the ALU's role should be anyway.  ILC02
was immense fun for me: not only the formal presentations, but also
just hanging out and discussing ideas with people I'd only previously
met online.  But then, LSM was pretty cool too: you don't <i>have</i>
to spend megabucks and an ulcer to get interesting people together in
the same place (as witness NotCon).

<p>Lisp news from me personally: not much.  One of the ideas being
thrown around for <a href=
"http://www.cliki.net/Libre%20Software%20Meeting%202004" >LSM</a> this
year is that between, around and during the formal presentations (but
only during the boring ones) we attempt less formal "lightning"
presentations of 5-10 minutes to explain to the assembled masses what
we're doing or what we think they should be doing, or where we have
points of issue to give everyone the necessary background to debate it
meaningfully.  The current list has me down to explain why you should
package your projects with asdf and asdf-install, and Rudi Schlatte
talking about simple-streams; I think we'll also be trying to co-opt
Tim Moore to explain enough of CLIM to the world that we can
brainstorm what should happen when there are multiple apps in one
image, and I'm pretty sure Christophe Rhodes wanted to argue with
someone about floating point.

<p>My "hack hemlock" idea there seems to have veered off track a bit;
the more I thought about it the more fun it seemed it would be to
start from scratch and then start stealing and retrofitting code from
Hemlock and other places <i>after</i> I had a basic set of sensible
abstractions to fit them into.  And I know that any project that
starts with Hemlock is going to be subject to Robert Strandh asking
"why aren't you using flexichains", whereas with a from-scratch design
I can just leave the buffer abstraction, well, abstract.  For the
moment.  Anyway, you heard it here first: <b>r</b>inse <b>i</b>s
<b>n</b>o <b>s</b>ubstitute for <b>e</b>macs.  Not now and quite
possibly not ever, even if I do get it to a usable state; I'm
designing an editor I want to use, and if nobody else likes it, too
bad.  There's no code yet, but it'll be in telent cvs as soon as there
is.

<P>Non-Lisp news: last weekend I went on an "introduction to climbing"
course at the local climbing wall, thus demonstrating beyond all doubt
that my shoulder is better.  Yesterday it was not aching any more than
my other shoulder, back or forearms were, and the bruising has finally
disappeared too.  So, sometime in the next few days I need to wander
back to Mile End and spend some more time hanging onto things by my
fingertips (and upside down from the ceiling).
