title: I'm sorry about this, I really am
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Thu, 24 Jun 2004 22:44:25 +0000

I'm sorry about this, I really am.  I try as far as possible not to do
vapourware, but I can't help mentioning stuff about <b>rinse</b> on
#lisp from time to time, and people keep asking questions.  Therefore,
in the hope of saving myself some time later I will now run through
the FAQ list (where A stands for Anticipated as much as it does
Asked):

<ol>
<li> There is no code yet.

<li> It's not an emacs clone.  It won't run elisp.  If you want to run
gnus, run it in emacs.

<li> Initially I plan to use raw CLX, but the display backend should
be reasonably loosely coupled.

<li> We expect the Lisp implementation to convert from external
streams to characters, so it'll do Unicode to the same extent as 
the Lisp does

<li> But with that in mind, I'm using SBCL to develop, so "8 bit
clean" is about the best you can hope for for the moment.

<li> It's not a structure editor per se - input files are streams of
characters - but let's recognise that most files most of the time are
conventionally treated as though they have more structure than this (I
hear the usual term is "parsed" ;-) and provide structure-sensitive
operations.  But allow the user to do structure-violating operations
(deleting close parentheses, etc) without immediately going ape.

<li> Some kind of free license (undecided yet).  Would like to avoid
anything contagious to other unrelated stuff in the same image, and
ideally even to allow people to write non-free extensions on the
"rinse platform" ("washboard?") but if there's any way despite that to
prevent people from taking the whole thing and turning it into their
proprietary Lisp development environment without sending "core"
enhancements back (a la Hemlock => LW IDE) I'm all ears.  Well, at
least I'm vaguely interested; it's not a <i>pressing</i> concern and I
may well just end up with ye trusty MIT-style do-what-thou-wilt
licence.

<li> Intending to port the SLIME frontend so that all the stuff in SWANK
is available for debugging/developing user code in a second image. 

<li> Working (and crash-proof, unlike Emacs or anything else using
xlib) support for popping up windows on more than one display at once.

<li> Better attention paid to the social niceties of X than FSF Emacs
does.  Yesterday I found myself having to paste from Emacs into xterm
into Mozilla, because for some reason I couldn't transfer accented
characters from Emacs to Mozilla directly.

<li> There is no code yet.

<li> I amn writing this instead of rectifying that omission.

<li> Therefore I should stop.
</li>
</ol>
