title: There are very few Google hits for "Keito K6", so next week this entry
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Fri, 25 Jun 2004 11:25:46 +0000

<p>There are very few Google hits for "Keito K6", so next week this entry
will probably join them.  There's one of <a
href="http://www.keito.com/keitok6.html" >these things</a> in my local
supermarket; it measures weight, height and body fat percentage, and
calculates body mass index as well.

<p>Up to a point, at least.  Accurately calculating body fat mass is a
fairly involved process, so instead it just measures the impedance
between one hand and the other, which should be in some way related to
water content in the body.  Muscle holds more water than fat, so based
on that and your age and sex (which you tell it), it guesses the fat
mass.

<p> Of course, weight also varies a lot during the day with things
like hydration, food intake, etc, so should be best done in the
morning before doing anything else: let's just say that I have no
intention of walking to Tescos in my dressing gown every morning - or
even one morning a week - so forget that.

<p>But height?  At least it can tell me how tall I am, surely?  No,
apparently not.  My height as measured using a book and a pencil and
the dorframe: 170cm.  My height as guessed last week by this Health
Multifunctional Measuring Unit: 168cm.  As guessed last night: 165cm.
Now, I've heard of height changes due to spinal compression (see
e.g. <a
href="http://rsna2003.rsna.org/rsna2003/VBK/conference/event_display.cfm?id=66601&em_id=3103199"
>Measurement of Diurnal Variation in Intervertebral Disc Height in
Normal Individuals</a>), but the figure quoted there is less than a
centimetre.  Besides, my experiment with the book and the doorframe
was conducted less than an hour after the second estimate from Keito.

<p>So, not sure what my point is here, but it's probably something
along the lines of "don't trust spurious precision".  

<p>Oh, and it got the time of day on the printout wrong too ...



