title: CLiki 0.4.3 is now in cCLan
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Tue, 11 May 2004 17:16:15 +0000

CLiki 0.4.3 is now in cCLan.
<pre>
Bcc: dan
To: lispweb@red-bean.com
Subject: ANN: CLiki 0.4.3
X-Draft-From: ("nnml+private:mail.lists.london" 3116)
From: Daniel Barlow 
--text follows this line--

CLiki 0.4.3 is now in cCLan.  This is approximately the version that's
been running on www.cliki.net for the past few months.

New in CLiki 0.4.3

* Versioning!  At the expense of making the file names correspond even
  less closely with the page title, we now produce a version per edit.

* While indexing we collect the first sentence of each page, and
  make it accessible as (CLIKI-FIRST-SENTENCE page)

* Legacy searches now print this out.

* Beginning of the long slow process to separate generic cliki engine
  stuff from www.cliki.net stuff: new cliki-net class that you
  probably don't want to use unless you're me  

* Indexing tweaks mean startup on big clikis may be a bit faster.  

* Bug fixes: RSS generation, topic searches.

* *(Uncategorized) marker added to default text for new pages.


Note that there is also an internals change which you may run into if
you are building cliki-based tools: to make backlink searches and
updating simpler, CLIKI-PAGE objects are now created when references
to non-existent pages are encountered during indexing.  These
placeholder pages have NIL :pathname and :versions slots.

(You can see this behaviour in action at http://www.cliki.net/Dan%20Moniz,
at lease until/unless someone creates that page)

This means that if you want to detect whether a page /really/ exists,
you should not just rely on find-page returning NIL, but also 
test the pathname slot.

</pre>
