title: Brief non-computers roundup:
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Tue, 18 May 2004 11:27:28 +0000

Brief non-computers roundup:

<ul>
<li> My shoulder is more or less better.  The bruising is still pretty
evident, and it still aches a bit, but I can drink right-handed again,
which is the main thing.

<li> <A href="http://www.clubblueroom.com/" >Club Blue Room</a>, take
a bow.  I think I spent about eight pounds in there (new heel brake,
small tube of bearing grease) since I bought my skates three years
ago; almost every time I go back to spend money on something else they
tell me I don't need it and how to fix the problem anyway.  At least,
they suggested cutting up bits of old insole to move the position of
my ankle bone in the skate boot; I creatively interpreted the
instruction and cut up an old mouse mat instead - I seem to have more
of them lying around than spare insoles, for some reason.  Foot much
more comfortable now, anyway.  Oh, and thanks to the <a
href="http://www.positive-internet.com/"Positive Internet Company</a>
for the mousemat too - but don't worry, guys, I haven't found a
similar use for the wooden giraffes yet.

<li>Back on bike again, too.  Yesterday, at least.  Tonight is 
uk-lispers and I'm not really wild about cycling home after beer.

<li>Weather glorious.

<li>Anyone know where I can get small quantities of piezoelectric film
from in the UK?  Not that it matters immediately now the days are that
much longer, but sometime before autumn I'd like to experiment with
boot lighting techniques a bit.

</ul>