title: The other thing I decided fairly recently that I need to work on is my
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Fri, 11 Jun 2004 0:9:14 +0000

The other thing I decided fairly recently that I need to work on is my
skating.  Comparing myself against "skill level" charts, I find that
I'm, well, all over the chart.  I've been skating for everyday
transport and regular street skates for most of the year, but never
had any proper lessons, and don't spend a lot of time on them
otherwise.  So, demonstrating ably the ancient wisdom that "training
to do X will make you very good at X but do nothing for your abilities
at W or Y": I can go, I can stop, I can turn, I can surf tree roots,
loose gravel, drain covers, white paint and small holes with
flail^Wflair and style, and I can skate 12 miles on a Friday and
<i>still</i> get to the pub before my friends (who have also skated 12
miles, don't start thinking I'm superhuman here).  But: I'm entirely
crap at the usual array of tricks (crossovers, spins, t-stops,
backwards skating, jumps, slalom, etc etc) that would usually go along
with that.  So, I am resolved to spend at least some time each week
practising this stuff, and not just the 20 minutes before the Friday
Night Skate because that always turns out to be more like 5 minutes
plus 15 minutes standing around talking to people.  This is of course
made a whole lot more palatable by having fixx0red my skates so they
no longer make my the lump around my ankle bone swell up to twice its
normal size.

<p>I had feedback that my notcon blog was "good but totally out of
character".  It seemed pretty normal to me (though not about Lisp,
granted), except possibly that I seem to have been getting all
touchy-feely and confessional lately.  Blame it on the weather: normal
service will resume as soon as the novelty wears off.
