title: I found today what seems to be the only arm movement that still makes
my shoulder hurt: pumping bicycle tyres
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Mon, 24 May 2004 22:5:43 +0000

I found today what seems to be the only arm movement that still makes
my shoulder hurt: pumping bicycle tyres.  What's interesting, though,
is that (a few hours later) both of my shoulders now ache, not just
the right one.  I'm probably carrying my neck in a funny way to avoid
pulling something, and thereby stretching something else.  Or
something.  That's handwaving, albeit fairly cautious handwaving in
case I set something else off.  

<p>Araneida 0.85 is out.  Its release received almost no publicity,
because to be honest there wasn't much new in it.  The next release of
Araneida, however, is rumoured to include <a
href="http://article.gmane.org/gmane.lisp.web/369" >support for
OpenMCL and Allegro</a> (and possibly also, it's rumoured, <a
href="http://www.cliki.net/Armed%20Bear%20Lisp">ABCL</a>).  At least,
I've given Brian CVS commit access, so I hope it will :-)

<p>Why is there apparently no open source icalendar server?  My
conjecture is that the specification is in some way stupidly complex.
So, what about subsetting it?  My mobile phone claims to understand
either icalendar or vcalendar (I forget which); if they can build
calendaring into such a terminally dumb device as that, surely it's
not impossible to do a reasonable subsetted implementation of
icalendar as open source, then rely on network effects to make it a
universal pidgin.  But what's an appropriate subset?



