title: I've pretty much stopped reading comp.lang.lisp (did I mention this
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Tue, 27 Apr 2004 0:18:12 +0000

I've pretty much stopped reading comp.lang.lisp (did I mention this
already?  oh, ok, not for several days), but I do occasionally point
google groups at it to make sure I'm not missing anything.  Lately
there seems to be a lot of talk about producing Linux CD-based Lisp
environments: in short, what I was trying to do (and to charge money
for) <a href="http://web.metacircles.com/cirCLe%20CD" >six months
ago</a>.  Not being in a position any longer to see this through (nor,
happily, being in quite such a pronounced need for new revenue
streams), I can not only give the world the benefit of my
<a href="http://ww.telent.net/diary/2003/10/#5.8494">experience</a>
<a href="http://ww.telent.net/diary/2003/10/#22.52777" >(s)</a>,
but the <a href="http://ftp.linux.org.uk/~dan/livecd/">code that goes
with them</a>.  Enjoy.

<p>I have done no Lisp development lately, beyond intermittent (and
not especially successful) poking at amd64.  Lonix meeting (pub) on
Wednesday, uk-lispers (pub) on Thursday, Friday Night Skate (followed
by pub) on Friday, GLLUG saturday (followed by - can you spot the
pattern?  yes, more alcohol) and <a
href="http://www.citiskate.co.uk/inline_skating_calender_events.htm"
>skating to Greenwich</a> (scroll down) on Sunday.  Followed .. ok,
you get the picture.  Monday morning awoke sore, slightly sunburnt
and dehydrated, but more annoyingly, unable to raise my right arm
above shoulder height without wincing: managed to fall on it
(actually, tripped and rolled on it, I think; I'm a little unclear on
the details) yesterday.


