title: I'd better write something about NotCon, then
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Mon, 7 Jun 2004 21:29:55 +0000

<p> I'd better write something about <a
href="http://www.xcom2002.com/nc04/" >NotCon</a>, then.  If you'd been
to XCOM two years ago, it was sort of like that (telling the time with
a prawn sandwich, full-motion video on a Spectrum), but actually not
very (accoustics worth a damn - you could actually <i>hear the
speakers</i> - and without the trestle tables around the edge manned by people
with wooly beards and woolier ideas)

<p> In no particular order:

<p> I should plug <a href="http://www.theyworkforyou.com/"
>http://www.theyworkforyou.com/</a>, not that they need the meagre
googlejuice I can channel their way.  But in five words: "Hansard with
a user interface".  Glossary for foreigners: "The Official Report
(Hansard) is the edited verbatim report of proceedings in both Houses
[of Parliament] Members' words are reported with repetitions and
redundancies omitted and with obvious mistakes omitted, but nothing is
left out which adds to the meaning of the speech or illustrates the
argument."

<p> The prawn sandwich.  Summary from memory: you take the sandwich
apart and monitor the bread, prawns and mayonnaise separately.  Bread
and mayonnaise are basically a resistive load; the prawn is, I think,
partly capacitive, and each component decays at a different rate.  The
whole thing needs to be about two days past its sell-by date before it
becomes useful as a time source

<p> I skipped everything between about 2pm and about 4pm to go
skating.  Which was fun, except that I was foolish enough to leave my
rucksack at home thinking "I only have a pair of trainers to carry, I
can just hold onto them".  Indeed I had, and could, and did, but not
having hands free seemed to cramp my style somewhat; also I forgot my
wristguards and so erred further on the side of caution than was
really necessary.

<p> <a href="http://www.sparklefluff.com/siam/" >Tom Dolan's talk on
managing people</a> (also see <a
href="http://www.sparklefluff.com/blatantoptimism/archive/000962.html"
>this blog entry</a>, which made me laugh).  Right now I'm firmly out
of the management game, but I listened to this and winced remembering
things I had screwed up last time around.  "When the going gets tough,
what you should absolutely not do is retreat into your own job"
(paraphrased) ... um, um.  Conceded, that I was expected to continue
doing my old job <i>as well</i> as managing didn't really make it easy.

<p> And so to the Danny O'Brien talk, which was the one that really
struck a chord.  (He's given this talk before: if you <a href=
"http://www.google.com/search?q=life+hacks" >google "life hacks"</a>
you'll find about a zillion people have blogged one of its instances,
probably all linked to each other as well, and most of it 
utterly worthless.  Cory Doctorow has useful <a href=
"http://www.craphound.com/lifehacksetcon04.txt"notes from
ETCON</a>, though)

<p>As usual with a talk about which lots of people enthuse, there are
a bunch of probably-contradictory messages you can take home.  So
instead of reporting what Danny actually said (if you weren't there,
your local Iranian carpet weaver should easily be able to reconstruct
it from the threads scattered across the aforesaid zillion blogs) I'm
going to seize random comments and use them as ammunition to promote
views close to my own heart: I refer of course to "habitable software".

<p>The common thread with all of these allegedly productive people was
that they had picked a flexible environment/platform (given that
they're all famous on the interweb and therefore by definition
involved with publishing their ideas on usually-unix-based boxen, it's
no surprise that in 95% of cases this platform is the unix shell) and
scripted it to do things that it might not even be the best tool for.
Common example: instead of using a clicky graphical project management
tool, manage your outstanding task list with a lightweight text editor
and a file called "todo.txt".  

<p>What this means if you want to write software for these people,
then: <b>don't make it a platform</b> unless it's good enough to
displace their existing platform (and you can probably assume it won't
be any time soon: it needs to be significantly <i>better</i> to be
worth the cost of learning/unlearning).

<p>There's also a relevant argument in the "scripting vs programming"
debate thing.  (many of) these people know how to write software, and
indeed are famous for it.  But the private scripts they write to
manage their lives are typically not the kinds of things you would
hold up as a good style example: they're often 80% solutions slapped
together to meet a need which possibly doesn't even exist any more.

<p> And while we're here, and because he mentioned them at the start
of the talk, I'm going to say a couple of words about CRC cards.  I'm
not sure whether we were supposed to consider that small paper
rectangles are also secrets of prolific alpha geeks or whether the
connection was just to Kent Beck ("I'm an average programmer with very
good habits") and hence the lead-in to the topic proper, but I'm just
going to throw this idea in the air: maybe the friction imposed 
by using inflexible/unsuitable tools is part of what <i>makes</i>
these people productive in the areas that they need to be, where they
might instead be adding drop shadows to their priority 1 items?
<a href= "http://www.c2.com/cgi/wiki?PhysicalCuesInSoftwareDevelopment"
>PhysicalCuesInSoftwareDevelopment</a> (from Ward's Wiki) has more on that
theme.  Affordances, guys.

<p>
For entertainment, then, a sample of the scripts in my ~/bin and
~/scripts directories - though perhaps my .emacs file would better
reflect the spirit of the endeavour.

<dl>
<dt>attach-locally, attach-stargreen, attach-telent <dd>attachtty
invocations for connecting to <a
href="http://www.cliki.net/">detachtty</a> instances for important
servers </dd>
<dt>diffprep, diffcommit</dt> <dd>Written sometime during the
dotcom boom that i missed, and in probably near-daily use since then.
diffprep runs cvs diff and prepends a # to each line.  diffcommit
reads this file, strips out the lines starting with #, and uses the
remaining lines to form a commit message for each file that the diff
touches.  Usage scenario: <tt>diffprep &gt; file</tt>; edit file to
include a sensible commit message for each file, using the diff to
remind yourself of what you actually changed; <tt>diffcommit &lt;file
| sh -s</tt> 
<dt>getnews <dd> set up a ssh tunnel to a news server I
no longer use, and run fetchnews
<dt>gpg-verify-email.pl</dt><dd>Written after a keysigning party(sic)
a few months ago.  Takes a bunch of key ids, and mails the associated
email addresses a form letter saying "someone with ID that associated
themselves with the username on this key was in the pub last Wednesday
asserting that the key was theirs.  If this was you, please reply so
that I know the email address corresponds too".  Probably not an
<i>awful</i> lot of use as it stands except for any future keysigning
parties organised on Wednesdays in places called "the Lamb and Flag,
Oxford".  Still, it did a job, and I can hack it for the next one in
less time than it took to write.
<dt>imap-metacircles, imap-zen</dt>
<dd> wrapper scripts so that fetchmail can
 collect mail via "ssh foo /usr/bin/imapd"
<dt>proxy</dt><dd> evil kludge (in Perl, natch) to connect to a remote
host:port through an HTTPS proxy that understands CONNECT proxying.
Written several years ago, probably used twice.
<dt>sndplay</dt> <dd> sox $*  -t ossdsp -c 2 /dev/dsp
<dt>suspend</dt> <dd> script to kill audio-using applications then
rmmod i810_audio and APM suspend.  Given that it's approaching four
years since I hacked the i810_audio driver to suspend cleanly, that
tells you something about how often i clean up around here
<dt>t39-sync-numbers.pl</dt>
<dd>crashes my computer, mostly.  It was going to back up my mobile
phone, but usb blah blah linux blah pl2303 bla blah reverse engineered
blah panic.  So, it doesn't.
</dd>
</dl>

Oh, and this diary entry, like all the others, is brought to you by
<tt>diarize</tt>; a shell alias for <tt>make -C $HOME/doc/telent sync
$*</tt>.  I like Makefiles.


