title: I've had this laptop (Toshiba Port&eacute;g&eacute; 3440CT) for
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Tue, 20 Jul 2004 0:17:7 +0000

<p>I've had this laptop (Toshiba Port&eacute;g&eacute; 3440CT) for
something over three years now, and I'm still pretty happy with it,
mostly.  Yes, it's old and underpowered (500MHz mobile PIII), but it
weighs practically nothing, it has a trackpoint thing, three mouse
buttons (actually, two buttons and two scrollwheel simulating buttons
but I can remap one of those as button 3 and it mostly works apart
from slightly evil autorepeating behaviour), and it's old enough to
use APM not ACPI.  Which during most of its early life was a distinct
advantage on a machine that runs Linux.

<p>It does have a few oddities, though; readers may recall its habit
of saving power by randomly <a
href="http://ww.telent.net/diary/2004/4/#20.61525">frobbing CPU speed
and not telling the OS</a>.  This is not in itself a problem now I've
weaned Linux away from using the TSC as a time source, and probably
also saving some power, but the manner of its doing was starting to
annoy me, in that it will decide apparently at random that it should
only speed up as far as 266MHz.  Usually it can be persuaded to speed
up again by removing and reapplying mains power, but after a while
(and lately it seems to be quite a short while) it's forgotten again.
This is tedious when recompiling SBCL.

<p>Today I found that (a) the version of <tt>toshset</tt> that I
already have installed has an option for cpu speed, (b) it was set to
'low', (c) setting it to 'high' does actually make a difference, and
to cap it all (d) the cpu speed still varies continuously according to
system load, so as I mostly use well-behaved apps that only eat cpu
when they're actually <i>doing</i> things (exception made for the ISC
dhcp client which from time to time likes to spin on CPU), I still get
the battery savings.  Happy Bunnies R Us.

