title: Replacement cpu is here
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Sun, 17 Oct 2004 0:36:12 +0000

<p> Replacement cpu is here.  After a short some inspection of the various
bits of computer I'd managed to order, I realised that (a) no fan, and
(b) motherboard too large to fit the case in which I was planning to
install it.  Rectified this situation with short trip down Tottenhan
Court Road.  Put everything together.  Worked first time too, good grief.

<p> After reading a little on the difficulty of installing debian
amd64 with debootstrap (seems you need to be running a 64 bit kernel
to do it successfully) I decided that if I was going to write an ISO I
might as well take the opportunity to install Ubuntu.

<p>First impressions, then: installs from a single CD.  After a fairly
non-taxing text-mode installation (involves one reboot) which
automatically found my graphics card, mouse, network and audio, it
boots straight up into some form of graphical login screen with <a
href= "http://www.ubuntulinux.org/login.png" >a picture</a> (taken
from above) of two attractive women and a bloke with no chest hair and
better abs than mine.  Admittedly, as I have none to speak of that's
not really a great description, but they're the kind that would
naturally draw the eye if it weren't already being drawn down the tops
of the two ladies.  After logging in, you get some kind of Gnome
desktop with Firefox as default browser.  I'm not sure how long I'll
stick with it (I'll at least be finding the focus-follows-mouse option
if it has one, and installing a real xterm toot sweet) but we'll see
how it goes.  Expect to see various comments on particularly good/bad
aspects in forthcoming days, if it has any, but it does seem pretty
slick so far.
