title: Subject: ROBOTS meta tag and transient information
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Tue, 26 Oct 2004 1:14:56 +0000

<pre>
Subject: ROBOTS meta tag and transient information.
To: googlebot@google.com
</pre>

<p> I run a couple of Wiki sites which are regularly crawled by Google: 
ww.cliki.net and alu.cliki.net.  They feature highly in relevant
searches and overall I'm pretty happy with this state of affairs.

<p> You're no doubt aware that the less ethical of the "search engine
optimisation experts" spam their URLs onto pages of unrelated but
high-PageRanked wiki sites in the hope that the Google bot will 
index and follow the links to their sites before the wiki's regular
users spot and revert the changes.  Some people think it's the next
big thing after blog comment spam.  

<p> So, I would like to minimise use of my wikis as unwitting link farms
for spammers.  One approach I'm considering is to insert a

<pre>
 &lt;meta name="ROBOTS" content="NOFOLLOW">
</pre>

<p> html head element when I serve new versions of pages.  In 24 hours
it's pretty much a given that someone will have noticed and reverted
the spam: result, the google karma does not spread to these
undeserving cases.  Once a page has lasted 24 hours without subsequent
edits, I'll stop sending out the meta tag and Google can index the
page as normal thereafter.

<p> The downside: this will be less than ideal if the google bot caches
meta tags between one run and the next; i.e. if having once seen that
it shouldn't follow links from www.cliki.net/index, it remembers that
and never follows them again despite that on its next visit the header
is no longer there.

<p> So, at last, my question: does your bot cache robots meta tags between
runs, and if so for how long and is there any way that a web site can
ask it not to?  If it doesn't, it seems that this would be a
reasonable approach for a lot of wiki engines to help reduce one
source of pagerank spam - and when spammers realise this is happening,
they'll (eventually, maybe) stop spamming the said wikis.  With luck
and a following wind, everyone wins.

<hr>
Let's see if we get a reply ...
