title: What a fun day I've had
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Tue, 16 Nov 2004 19:13:32 +0000

<p>What a fun day I've had.

<ol>

<li>Perl's global destructors coexist really badly with fork(),
because they run when the child exits as well as when the parent
exits.  This is a problem when you have e.g. DBI database handles open
in the parent and fork off a process to do something transient: when
it's done, it closes them for you.  Even if your child does abolutely
nothing involving databases in any way (let's say, for example, it's
part of an unrelated library), the approved workaround is apparently
for it to set $dbh->{InactiveClose}=1 for every database handle in the
app.  How it gets to <i>know</i> what all those handles are, I don't
know.  

<p>What depresses me is that this problem comes up repeatedly on the DBI
mailing lists and I can't see why it should not that hard to fix.  (1)
Decree that a child may not use database handles which were opened by
the parent (it's already dodgy behaviour as it doesn't work in
e.g. DBD::Oracle) (2) enforce this by storing the pid of the process
that called connect() in the database handle, and checking it on
subsequent accesses, (3) in the DESTROY method, skip the destruction
if we didn't do the creation.

<li>SOAP and SOAP::Lite entirely reinforce my belief that any
variation on "Simple" or "Lightweight" in the name of a protocol,
library or other software product is to be be treated with the same
suspicion as "People's" or "Democratic" in the name of a country.
What addlewitted crackpate came up with WSDL?

</ol>

<p>I was going to write a whole lot more in this vein, but you'd find
it as boring to read as I found it infuriating to, er, find.

<p>In other news, though, 
<b>(SBCL|telent|portable) <a href="http://ww.cliki.net/CLX">CLX</a>
<a
href="http://lists.metacircles.com/pipermail/portable-clx/2004-November/000065.html"
>0.6 released.</a></b>


