title: I said earlier that I'd write something about protocol-oriented
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Mon, 30 Aug 2004 14:9:9 +0000

I said earlier that I'd write something about protocol-oriented
programming.  Then I decided that it'd be more fun to send it to
ll1-discuss instead of posting it here.  In the process of penning it,
I came across <a
href="http://www.mactech.com/articles/frameworks/8_2/Protocol_Evins.html"
>this article by Mikel Evins</a>, which (a) says everything I wanted
to, and (b) more, and (c) was written more than ten years ago, so
decided I didn't need to.

<p>I'm going to add my 2p summary anyway, based on the previous #lisp
discussion that also led to <a
href="http://www.advogato.org/person/crhodes/diary.html?start=78"
>Christophe Rhodes' LSM2004 presentation</a>: a protocol is an defined
communication across an ownership boundary, <i>in which both sides
have expectations of the other</i>.  This "equal peers" clause is what
sets it apart from an API, in which the expectation may all be
one-directional.  Trivial example: consider the unix <tt>sync()</tt>
call - the client doesn't have to do a whole lot, but the requirement
on the implementation is strong.  Conversely, in <tt>qsort()</tt>,
where the client provides the comparison routine, both sides have
something important to do if the job is to get done.

<p>(Of course, simply having used a protocol somewhere doesn't mean
you're thinking in a Protocol-Oriented manner any more than having
used a function somewhere means you're programming Functionally.  Some
languages have better support than others for different ways of
thinking.  Your Mileage May Vary.  There Is No Silver Bullet.  Objects
In The Rear View Mirror etc etc)

<p>For other stuff about protocols (and especially stuff that predates
the current flurry), Google Groups might be a good place to start.
Here's <a
href="http://groups.google.com/groups?hl=en&lr=&ie=UTF-8&c2coff=1&safe=off&threadm=A0KR7.13893%245W5.5761440%40typhoon.ne.mediaone.net&rnum=1&prev=/groups%3Fq%3Dg:thl2209172876d%26dq%3D%26hl%3Den%26lr%3D%26ie%3DUTF-8%26c2coff%3D1%26safe%3Doff%26selm%3DA0KR7.13893%25245W5.5761440%2540typhoon.ne.mediaone.net"
>an article by Scott McKay</a> to be getting on with.  Lots of
protocol discussion hapened in comp.lang.dylan too, unsurprisingly.
