title: A couple of references have been made to the problem with cliki's
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Tue, 2 Nov 2004 1:16:54 +0000

A couple of references have been made to the problem with cliki's
free-software-only stance.  Let me explain why, in the time-honoured
term, I consider that this is "a feature, not a bug".

<p><i>This diary entry was lifted wholesale from an email I sent
earlier this evening; I apologise if you have to sit through it more
often than you wanted to</i>

<P>Two words: <b>"network effects"</b>.

<p>It's like this: the constituency CLiki aims to serve is people
<i>using</i> the software it lists, not (except incidentally) the
authors of that software.  Five years ago, a vast amount of the
commonly used downloadable software in CL had homebrew licences.  Have
a look around the AI repository.  ILISP had a clause to prohibit
selling it for money.  mk-defsystem required anyone modifying it to
submit the changes back to the authors before the modified version
could be distributed.  Now, you might say "so what?"  and indeed these
are on the face of it both reasonable positions to take.  But the
cumulative (possibly even combinatorial) effect of all these homebrew
licenses was that anyone wanting to write software that builds on them
had to spend an inordinate amount of time reading licences.

<p>These days?  Practically everything is PD or BSD- or MIT-licensed.
Some stuff is LGPLed.  A small amount is GPLed.  For anything using a
familiar licence, it takes about two minutes to determine whether it's
OK for for a given purpose, and as a result we can all spend more time
programming and less time reading legalese.  This morning I used <a
href="http://www.cliki.net/cl-ppcre">cl-ppcre</a> to hack together a
kludgey regex-based "bad words" filter for cliki in about twenty
minutes.  If Edi had written his own licence of approximately the same
length as the BSD one, it'd have taken me that long just to
<i>read</i> it.  If I'd needed a couple of hours of head-scratching to
work out whether making cliki (which has in the past been used for
sites which could be described "commercial use") depend on cl-ppcre
was legal, that's two hours I'd have probably spent badly
reimplementing the appropriate bits of cl-ppcre instead.

<p>(So, thank you, Edi)

<p>Things might be different if my focus was more on authors and
helping them make a buck or two - but honestly, there's not much I can
do there anyway.  If you're atttempting to make money from programmers
you're probably deluded anyway - we've always been a really tough
crowd to please.  And if you're not selling to programmers, what
exactly do you expect from a listing in a Lisp directory?  Better to
spend the marketing effort getting listed in a directory appropriate
to your business domain.

<p> Now, we can argue about some other points: for example

<ul>
<li> the Unix requirement is mostly there to fit my own personal
interests and given that most of the software on cliki is pretty
portable or could be ported, is not terrifically exclusionary anyway.

<li> the "culture" of free software zealotry may dissuade some people
from contributing to various of the other stuff on CLiki (e.g. the
standardisation debates)
</li>
</ul>

but I don't want people to think that my only reason for stating DFSG
on CLiki was some "religious" viewpoint.  I think that the community
software scene around CL is a lot healthier these days than it was
back in 2000 when CLiki started, and although the people we primarily
must thank for this are its authors, I'd like to hope that CLiki
played its own educational and publicity role in encouraging people to
make their software legally compatible with each other.

<p>My opinion.  Yours may vary.  
