title: I had certain problems at the weekend with computer suppliers: most
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Wed, 19 Jan 2005 0:26:26 +0000

I had certain problems at the weekend with computer suppliers: most
notably Simply, who told me on the telephone that thay had lots of
cdroms and disks in stock for collection from their London branch,
then in person when I got there (admitedly an hour or two later) that
they only had 160Gb drives only one kind of cdrom - not the cheap one.

<p>So I mail-ordered instead.  Nice new SATA drive arrived today;
expected tomorrow, a controller card to use with it.  I've already
scanned the old disk - on finding that the partition table was
unreadable anyway I thought I might as well whack it in a PC and see
what I <i>could</i> get - and the good news is that the corruption was
entirely confined to the start of the disk (root partition and swap)
and didn't affect any of the interesting stuff (cvs repositories, home
directories, etc) - once I'd found the start of <tt>/export</tt>, it
restored cleanly onto the new disk.  So, with any luck I should have
it all running again soon and back on the net next week.  Fingers
crossed.

<p>Not been writing much here lately (as, obviously, you can tell
easily): when I have been doing/thinking about Lisp-related stuff,
it's been about a replacement streams system for SBCL.  But I barely
have anything written down yet, never mind implemented.  Oh, and 
the <a href="http://alu.cliki.net/">ALU Wiki</a> is going to die
unless someone does something, but I've had no responses of any kind
to that message yet, so that shouldn't be a big deal.

<p>Today's neat software: <a
href="http://www.kalysto.org/utilities/dd_rhelp/index.en.html"
>dd_rhelp</a>, and <a href="http://www.garloff.de/kurt/linux/ddrescue"
>dd_rescue</a>, on which it depends.
