title: In other news
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Tue, 15 Feb 2005 0:24:56 +0000

In other news...

<ul>
<li> I got an author contract from Linux Journal for an article I
wrote for them about eighteen months ago.  Frankly, I'd given up on
ever hearing from them a while ago (they didn't reply to my "ping"
email), and I'm not sure what to do now.  The article was about how to
make your own live CD out of bits of Debian unstable: I'm not at all
sure that the procedure described in it would still work, and I'd
really find it hard to believe that nothing that's come along in the
meantime is an improvement.  Like, say, gnoppix-based-on-ubuntu.


<li> Got new wheels; need more.  My skates use a rather lame "hi-lo"
setup where the front two axles are nearer the ground than the back
two, meaning that the wheels in the front set should be 4mm smaller.
So on Sunday I got new 76s to replace the rather triangular-looking
ones on the front, then on fitting them found that they were actually
<i>larger</i> than the supposed 80s in the back.  Some wheel swapping
ensued and I now have 76 on the back and previously-80-now-probably-72
on the front.  Tested with a few minutes tottering around the
serpentine road, then the sunday stroll down to Battersea Park and back in the face of a strong
headwind.

<li> I came very close to writing a Perl script on Saturday, then just
in time came to my senses and realised that the machine it'll be
installed on doesn't even have the DBI/DBD modules installed yet and
why sully it?  So, I'm fiddling on and off with database APIs until I
find something I like.

<pre>
(with-query (q (istr::*database-handle* "select * from country"))
   (loop
    (let ((row (get-row istr::*database-handle*  q)))
      (unless row (return))
      (format t "hello ~S~%" row))))
</pre>

As previously discussed, <a
href="http://ww.telent.net/diary/2003/6/#21.51860" >I don't like O-R
mapping much</a>.  But nor can I remember the pg.lisp interfaces, and
when I do go to look them up I find that the efficient one
(pg-for-each, uses cursors) not only wants to execute a callback
function for each row, but doesn't pass the attribute names to that
callback.  

<li> Pthreaded AMD64 SBCL mostly works but doesn't yet
have <tt>interrupt-thread</tt>, and gives wrong error messages when you
ask it for backtraces.  I don't know how much time I have for hacking
it in the next two weeks, though; it's all looking a bit busy around
here.
</ul>

