title: Cliki (and this blog) was down for a couple of hours this morning
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Wed, 9 Mar 2005 15:47:34 +0000

Cliki (and this blog) was down for a couple of hours this morning.
It's up again now, and apparently has new CPU, motherboard and PSU.

<p> All those years ago when writing the CLiki <a
href="http://www.cliki.net/Privacy%20Statement" >Privacy
Statement</a>, I failed to foresee a need to publish excerpts from
server logs for the purpose of ranting about spammers.  So instead of
spewing a bunch of grep output from one recent cliki spam, I'd better
just tell you that 

<ul>
<li> He seems to be a human using an ordinary web browser, not a
script.  This also holds for the other recent front page defacement
that I checked.  And his IP address (which comes from "CNCGROUP
Beijing province network") isn't on any more DNS blacklists than is
usual, so no help there either.

<li> His referer(sic) when he arrived was a google search for
"qzzp.futurenet.com.cn".  When I tried this search it turned up an old
version of some Cliki page which had been spammed.  Obviously, a
NOFOLLOW robots tag isn't enough to stop pages from already-followed
links continuing to appear in the index, and thus cliki continues to
appear to be a good place to spam.  Even though <a
href="http://ww.telent.net/diary/2004/10/#26.896">as discussed
previously</a> it won't get you any googlejuice.

</ul>

<p>So it was easy enough to add NOINDEX to the old pages as well.  To make
robots take notice, though, I managed to touch every file on the site,
so the dates of previous revisions are a bit off (where 'a bit' is
between one hour and five years).  But as of tomorrow evening
<b>cvs.telent.net</b> goes back online (I hope), which should make it
more convenient to hack on this, and in the process of adding diff
support I think I'll have to revamp the way that change information is
stored anyway, so keeping the dates of previous revisions in some
place other than the file's mtime should not be a tough additional
requirement.  

