title: I thought I'd try mucking around with some audio stuff
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Thu, 10 Mar 2005 2:45:26 +0000

<p>I thought I'd try mucking around with some audio stuff.  Chiefly I'd
like to be able to put mixes together for the FNS music bike; it
remains to be seen whether I actually can <i>do</i> this - or whether
anyone likes my (lack of) music taste - but first I needed software.
My findings, summarised and leaving out a lot of blind alleys:

<ol>
<li> The Linux MP3-HOWTO is woefully out of date.  Of the two
plausible-sounding apps it lists, emixer has disappeared from the
planet, and GDAM (a) doesn't build without some slight hacking up

<pre>
GDAM_ARG_DOUBLE_ARRAY(arg).array[0] = spatial->##prefix##_x;
</pre>

and (b) after fixing this, segfaults on starting due (I think) to some
problem with missing or incorrect XML files.

<li><a href="http://mixxx.sourceforge.net/">Mixxx</a> seems like it
ought to work, and even compiles (after installing a stack of
libraries that I've hitherto not had the need for, but fair enough).
But it needs a soundcard with a second output for cueing - although it
can be told to use Left for cue and Right for speakers, my motherboard
audio (VIA VT8237) allegedly can do six channels, so why not go for two
stereo outputs?

<li>(It also complains at startup about not having hardware GL, then
incessantly thereafter about GLXBadLargeRequest, but for the moment I
am choosing to deal with this by redirecting stderr.  The claimed
workaround of disabling waveform display actually causes it to segfault)

<li>The ALSA fun starts here.  With the aid of the motherboard manual
I figured that the microphone jack doubles as rear speaker output;
with a combination of <tt>amixer</tt> (which has a command-line
interface that actually lets you see what's going on, not some crappy
curses thing) and <tt>speaker-test -Dsurround40 -c4</tt> I found
correct mixer settings to get front channels coming through speakers
and rear channels through the headphones plugged into the mic jack.
Look out especially for <tt>Spread Front to Surround and Center/LFE</tt>
and <tt>Surround Jack as Input</tt>, both of which should be disabled.

<li>This is the <a
href="http://www.sabi.co.uk/Notes/linuxSoundALSA.html" >best ALSA
documentation I have ever read</a>, and also the thing that gave me a
pointer to <a
href="http://alsa.opensrc.org/index.php?page=SurroundSound" >Using
surroundXX PCMs with JACK</a>.  With that and with
<pre>
jackd -d alsa -S -d jack40 -n3 --inchannels 2 --outchannels 4
</pre>
(less than 3 periods and I get enough "xrun" spewage that 
xterm's scrolling shows up in top(1)) all that remains is to tell 
mixxx's preference screeen to use alsa_pcm:playback_[1234] in that
order for each channel it wants to send stuff down.
</ol>

<p>For my next trick I'm almost tempted to configure GL after all.
The video card (Voodoo 3 PCI) is old enough that it probably
<i>ought</i> to have Linux drivers by now, after all.

