title: Time for a short consumer roundup
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Wed, 11 May 2005 12:16:44 +0000

Time for a short consumer roundup.

<ul>
<li>I remain happy, so far, with my new mp3 player (Creative Zen
Micro), which is now about 25% full of mp3s - almost all of them rips
of albums I own already (the only exception so far being an apparently
legal concert bootleg from archive.org).  When using it on the Tube,
though, I've realised just how noisy the Central Line is even
<i>before</i> layering music on top, so I am now also in posession of
a pair of Sony MDR-EX71 headphones, which fit right inside the ear
canal and are supposed to cut external noise significantly.  Also
they're not white, so I'm less likely to be mugged for them (although
I will probably be unable to hear the mugger behind me anyway; it all
evens out).  They arrived this morning, and feel ... odd.  Like earplugs,
which in effect they are of course.  And sound muffled, which probably
means I need to mess around with the different sizes of earbud.  That
or get my ears syringed, possibly.

<li>My phone died.  This upsets me as I've had it three years and
grown to quite like it - insofar as it's possible to like any device
so antisocial as a mobile phone.  It did a bad job, but it did it
well.  The replacement is a Motorola V220, which wins points for being
a USB device and compatible with <a href="http://www.pxh.de/fs/gsmlib/"
>gsmlib</a>, so I managed to transfer my phonebook into it with little
trouble.  Other than that I haven't used it enough to form an opinion
yet.

<li>I bought new skates a couple of weeks ago: these are <a
href="http://www.londonskaters.com/review-salomon-fsk-crossmax-3-2004.htm"
>Crossmax 2003</a> (and therefore discounted).  The major
practical difference from my last pair (Thunder) I suspect is less to
do with the higher-spec boot, extruded aluminium frame or twincam
bearings, but the fact they're a size smaller and so <i>fit so much
better</i>.  My one-footed balance instantly improved a whole lot.


<li> My laptop can no longer be described as "new", but I still like
it.  Only really aggravating feature is that so many of the ports you
might want to plug and unplug regularly (power, usb, ethernet) are on
the back behind the screen.   That and the lack of a third mouse button.

</ul>


