title: There are many reasons to keep a blog, and most of them are in
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Wed, 1 Jun 2005 11:22:10 +0000

There are many reasons to keep a blog, and most of them are in
conflict with each other.  Today the conflict is between writing
something so I will remember next year what I was doing this year, and
writing nothing so that everyone else doesn't have to wade through my
rambling.  Guess who won?

<ul>

<li> Listening to music on the tube doesn't make the tube journey pass
any faster in the way that reading a book does (when I can find a book
interesting enough to read but not yet so interesting that I don't
just finish it when I get home).  But the headphones do keep the <a
href="http://london.openguides.org/index.cgi?Bank_Station" >screeching
noise</a> down.

<li> I'm missing not having a spare computer on the internet.  I don't
know why, as I barely used the one I did have.  £150 buys me a year's
worth of 64Mb UML, or £200 (plus delivery) buys me a Celeron from the
Dell "factory outlet" with really rather a lot more memory and disk
than that, which my employers will host for me => free bandwidth.  But
then I'm still stuck with real hardware.

<li> To confirm what everyone already knew really, I am Officially Not
Hacking SBCL (or much else) right now - really don't have the time or
the enthusiasm.  If you were waiting for me to finish or merge
something that's interesting to you, ask on the appropriate mailing
list and I'll work out what state I left it in and post any WIP I have
lying around that's not publically available already.

<li> The full extent of my Lisping lately is - would you believe it -
tools for dealing with HTML forms and databases and stuff without (a)
going mad, or (b) involving much more of a framework than Araneida
already imposes.  

</ul>

I think I probably won't be at LSM after all.

