title: Enotomotomy, Trivial Sockets and Bordeaux-MP added to telent darcs
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Mon, 13 Jun 2005 11:20:17 +0000

Enotomotomy, Trivial Sockets and Bordeaux-MP added to <a
href="http://verisons.telent.net/cgi-bin/darcs.cgi">telent darcs</a>.
I think this is probably all of the code from telent cvs that anyone
might be interested in: please holler if there's anything else you're
missing.

<p>In non-Lisp news, yesterday I fulfilled my <a
href="http://ww.telent.net/diary/2004/12" >New Year's Resolution
no. 6</a> and perhaps also number 7.  Two hours doesn't sound like a
great time, but the winner got 1:35 and I think his usual marathon
time is more like 1:15-1:20, so my excuse will be (a) vicious
headwind, (b) lack of people to draft.  I did most of the second half
without benefit of a paceline.  In short, I'm secretly quite pleased,
but I'm not telling anybody that.

<p>Actually, since we're now halfway through 2005, I may as well
update on the status of the other resolutions

<ol>
<li> zilch
<li> also nothing (though the PPC issue looks like it will go away of
its own accord longterm)
<li> the texinfo translator got stolen with my last laptop and I
haven't thought about it since
<li> well, this one has no measurable targets and is therefore easy
<li> done.  although I'm moving soon anyway, so just in time to 
put all the books <i>back</i> in boxes....
<p>I'm thinking about selling or otherwise disposing of a
whole bunch of said books; presently any fiction book that I've read
but haven't reread since last time I moved is up for the chop.
<li><b>Yup!</b>
<li>I suppose so, yes.  Though I have another next week (which is on
the <a href="http://www.londoninlinemarathon.com/circuit.php" >Lee
Valley Cycle Circuit</a> and probably just as slow by virtue of its
hills as Goodwood was due to headwind) and then Berlin in September,
which is allegedly <i>much</i> faster.
<li>no
<li>likewise no
</ol>

Looks like a busy autumn ahead.

