title: Latest on cvs.telent.net: I plan to move to darcs
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Mon, 23 May 2005 1:48:44 +0000

Latest on cvs.telent.net: I plan to move to darcs.

<pre>
To: lispweb@red-bean.com,portable-clx@lists.metacircles.com
Subject: Telent CVS broken (again), likely move to darcs
From: Daniel Barlow <dan@telent.net>

[ this message is crossposted.  if you reply, please exercise
  restraint in your recipient lists ]

cvs.telent.net, the machine that does (did ...) CVS hosting for -
among other things - Araneida, CLiki, and "telent CLX", is currently
down with suspected hardware problems.  

My time and inclination for babysitting flakey hardware in colo space
is limited, but also, as many have noted, my record of late for
hacking on and merging patches to these projects is pretty poor
anyway.  I intend, therefore, to move the said projects over to darcs

   http://www.darcs.net/

This is one of the new breed of cvs-replacement version control
systems, with two important features from my perspective:

1) it's decentralised, so people can keep their own trees with local
patches in them, and worry less about getting changes through me.  If
anyone does a really good job (or indeed, a consistently
better-than-indifferent job) at patch merging and ongoing development
for any of the formerly-at-cvs.telent.net projects, I will be entirely
happy to hand over the "official" mantle to them.

2) it needs no special server support, so I don't have to worry about
finding a replacement machine for cvs.telent.net (call me paranoid,
but even chrooted I don't like running cvs pserver on any machine
that's used for something else)

cvs.telent.net is unlikely to return to service.  If anyone had an
account on it with data in their home directory, (a) well, you
probably shouldn't have done that, but (b) feel free to email me and
we'll make some kind of arrangement to get it off there.

I hope this should make things run a bit more smoothly in future.
More details when I've had a chance to upload the repositories
somewhere accessible.

-dan
</pre>
