title: I just had to reboot my computer after a Lisp program wedged it
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Sat, 20 Aug 2005 23:25:49 +0000

I just had to reboot my computer after a Lisp program wedged it.

<p>Well, I guess that needs a little qualification.  The Lisp in
question was librep, the librep interpreter was also running my
window manager (Sawfish), and the program was <tt>(read-line)</tt>.
And the computer wasn't totally wedged (it carried on playing my MP3s)
but wouldn't listen to any keyboard input or focus changes, nor even
to M-C-F1 or M-C-Backspace, making it rather hard to regain control.
So if I had another machine here I could probably have sshed into it,
but I haven't, so there.

<p>Still, if one of the supposed advantages of Lisp is the ease of
interactive experimentation and debugging, (and I think I've <a
href="http://ww.telent.net/diary/2003/1/#14.28515" >said this
before</a>), Sawfish is not it.

<P>Context: still flushed from my success in getting 90%-working
suspend-to-disk, I thought I'd make the machine's power button
activate it instead of having to su root and echo stuff into obscurely
named files in <tt>/sys</tt>.  That worked quite well once I'd
accounted for my script getting run multiple times on each button
press.  Then I decided to make the volume buttons work too, and that's
where I started playing with sawfish.  Maybe it's time to try <a
href="http://common-lisp.net/project/eclipse/">Eclipse</a> again.

<pre>
#!/bin/sh
# /etc/acpi/powerbtn.sh
# Initiates suspend-to-disk when the power putton has been
# pressed.  Note use of background process and locking: button 
# seems to send two events (up and down?) each time it's pressed,
# and we only get called for the second after the script has returned
# from the first.
( if lockfile -r0 /tmp/.acpi-suspend-lock; then
 echo 'platform' >/sys/power/disk
 echo 'disk' >/sys/power/state
 rm  /tmp/.acpi-suspend-lock
else 
 echo 'Ignoring second suspend attempt'
fi ) &
exit 0;
</pre>