title: Did I mention I got new skates
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Sun, 11 Sep 2005 22:34:11 +0000

Did I mention I got new skates?  No, it appears that I just mentioned
I was borrowing them.  Well, after a few one-hour sessions on the
Serpentine Road without reducing my feet to hamburger (in fact, they
get <i>more</i> comfortable after the first few minutes - probably as
the leather warms up) I decided I might as well go for it.  Now all I
have to do is learn to use them, and preferably in the next two weeks
(Berlin is the weekend of the 24th).

<p>Rained-off Rollerstroll was rescheduled for two weeks later (28th
August) and went ahead on that date without loss of life or serious
injury that I knew of, so I rate it as successful.  Then I went out
for some celebratory falling-down juice, and, er, fell down.  Some
skin missing from elbow, but more embarrassing than painful.

<p>Two thirds of the way nearer to having finished moving house:
rented small van to retrieve stuff from garage of previous flat (it's
only five miles away, I figured I'd rather have something easy to park
and do multiple trips if necessary) and transferred two vanloads which
comprise pretty much all my possessions except for the various bits of
furniture (bookcases, cd racks, and a table) they they go in/on.  Then
the garage padlock jammed leaving me unable to get the rest.  So, I am
no longer in a very bare flat, I am in a flat surrounded by boxes of
all my stuff.

<p>Still haven't worked out what's up with my wireless AP dropping the
connection periodically, except that <tt>iwlist eth1 scan</tt> is a
less-invasive way to kick it than <tt>ifdown</tt>/<tt>ifup</tt>

<p><b>Occult</b> v.tr. 1.  To conceal or cause to disappear from view.
2. Astronomy. To conceal by occultation: The moon occulted Mars.<br>

<b>OCCLT</b> n. A vague <a href="/toy.lisp">half-arsed attempt</a> at writing a window manager
with CLX.  Presently works(sic) for xeyes, xlogo and emacs, but
doesn't support enough iccccccccm to map an xterm in any way that
makes it actually visible.  And, er, has no actual <i>window
management</i> support yet (e.g. for choosing where on the screen they
go, or moving or resizing them, etc).  Name chosen because, well, it's
a bit like an <a href="http://common-lisp.net/project/eclipse/">eclipse</a>.

<p>(I anticipate writing a lot more about skating in the near future,
and not a lot more regularly about Lisp.  Planet Lisp readers will
however be relieved to hear that I anticipate also to be splitting the two
into separate RSS feeds first)
