title: Android G1 at six months
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Mon, 15 Jun 2009 14:46:04 +0100

The trouble with doing long-term reviews of mobile phones is that by
the time you've had them anything approaching a long time, they've
been superseded already and are probably about to be discontinued.

But anyway. I've owned this thing since shortly after they came out
and having recently finally peeled off the increasingly tatty piece of
cellophane it shipped with to protect the screen, I reckon it's time
for an update.

h2. The hardware

I won't go into detail about the hardware, as the software aspects are
going to be more interesting long-term.  The summary is "good but not
excellent": it has not bent, broken, warped, wefted, spindled, folded
or self-mutilated, but on the other hand its styling is still closer
to a brick than to an Iphone.  Apart from the battery, which deserves
its own section, the single stupidest hardware feature is the plastic
plug which is supposed to cover the mini-usb charging/headphone
socket. Second stupidest is probably the socket itself: although
mini-usb is the only sensible design for power and data connections,
the adaptor necessary to plug normal audio headphones in is wickedly
fragile and can be had only from chinese ebay sellers

I said the battery deserves its own section.  Here it comes:

bq. Battery life is crap.  Recharge every night, because it will not last a second day

Message ends.  I know it's an incredibly versatile device that's more
like an ultraportable computer than a mobile phone as we know them,
and also that by disabling all the interesting features I could
probably get it to last two days, maybe, at a push, but that would
kind of negate the point of having paid for the extra features in the
first place, now wouldn't it?

h2. The software

It's now six months after launch and I have to concede that despite
having upgraded to the "Cupcake" OS version 1.5, the software still
feels unfinished in some areas.  The Google contact/calendar
integration is a win, but it still lacks certain things that an
ordinary phone can do without problems, like selecting a phonebook
entry and beaming it or texting it to a friend.  And some of the
things it does do give the strong impression of never having been
tested on real people.  The Mail app at launch was famously bad enough
that a third-party group of hackers forked it just to get it to a
usable state (their fork, K-9, has since come on in leaps and bounds
and I strongly recommend it for non-Gmail IMAP users).  My particular
ire is reserved for the calendar, which defaults to presenting a view
of the month with coloured blobs to indicate when things are
happening but no clue as to what those things are.  And the camera - I
don't know whether to blame hardware or software or both, but I could
probably *paint* the scene in less time than it takes to focus, and
with a better result in any setting less well-lit than an operating
theatre.

This sounds pretty negative and it's mostly not.  It's just that when
you do get smacked by the 10% stupidity sections after the 90% (in
most cases) that *is* there has lulled you into quiet babylike
stuporific contentment, it smarts twice as much.  My recommended apps,
for the record:

* K-9 (unless you use Gmail)
* ConnectBot: an ssh client
* Twidroid: still the best twitter client I've seen
* Greed: RSS reader syncs with Google Reader, so you can discover
  feeds and manage subscriptions on your desktop instead of having 
  to type the URLs in on the device keyboard
* Ringdroid: MP3 editor and ring-tone creator


h2. Development

The phone this replaces is a Sony-Ericcson M600.  The PDA it replaces
is a Palm TX.  The first thing to say about it, then, is that for
openness it's light-years ahead of either.  Reasonably well
documented, easy to get into (no need to join developer programmes or
send your apps away to be certified) and there's a linux-hosted
toolchain.  I haven't explored it extensively but I did without too
much trouble write half an app that logged gpx tracks (but then My
Tracks came along and obsoleted my effort), and poked around inside
K-9 a bit. It's Java (practically speaking: legally it's merely
Java-like) which language I grant you nobody ever expanded their minds
by learning, but on the other hand has never caused anyone's brain to
leak out through their ears in quite the same way as C++ or PL/SQL can.

That sounds disturbingly - albeit quite faintly - like praise, so I
have to add that the second thing to say is that they've tragically
missed the point: it's still an ocean removed from hackable in any
useful sense.  All the support is there to write your own apps is no
use to you if you merely want to modify someone else's app, and even
if you are starting with one of the open-source apps you still have
the burden of maintaining your own private fork just to support your
private hacks.

It's not all bad: the use of Intents should make it possible to
"deep-link" into other people's apps (see
"Oilcan":http://oilcan.jsharkey.org/ for example), but it's still more
work than, say, Emacs hacking or Amiga ReXX ever was.

h2. Hacking

Underneath it all, as I'm sure everyone who cares already knows, is an
ARM chip running a slightly hacked Linux 2.6.  If you install the
Terminal Emulator app you can get a shell prompt: if you follow
instructions on the xda-developers forum you can get root access too.
I did: while I'm not sure it's essential to normal use, it does open
up a couple of bits that you can't do on the regular phone such as
wifi tethering and a task manager to kill apps you're not using when
the thing starts feeling sluggish.  (In theory this is unnecessary, in
practice I'm not convinced either way but at the very least it's a
great placebo effect)

But the bottom line is that it's fun to play with, which is probably
the major thing, and seems to be quite low risk: at least, going by the
comparative rarity of "I bricked my phone" posts on the xda-dev forum,
most seem to have managed it successfully. You can even install an
entire Debian system that lives alongside Android, though I still
can't think of a better reason to do so than bragging rights.
