title: Migrating Xen to KVM
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Wed, 03 Jun 2009 16:06:29 +0100

Until very recently I ran this blog site, and a couple of others (test
sites for work, that kind of thing) in a Xen virtual host on the pc
sitting on my desk.  While it worked ok for that purpose, it really
didn't coexist nicely with much else: the Xen kernels available in
debian have a showstopper bug for running X11, are missing modules for
e.g. cpu temperature monitoring, etc.  And the process to build ones
own is not usefully documented.  (I apt-get sourced my kernel image,
and it downloaded a _completely different kernel version_).  I don't
think the stuff is unusually buggy, it probably just doesn't have
enough eyeballs on it to find all the weird interactions with other
components or to patch them when they do turn up.

So when my four year old Athlon motherboard died recently, the
opportunity to rejoin the mainstream and start using kvm was the
silver lining in the "ew, hardware" cloud.

h2. A hard ware is gonna fall

I decided to go Intel this time despite my AMD-supporting underdog
instincts, chiefly because I figured that (a) every Intel cpu on the
planet should have VT support by now, (b) onboard graphics are
well-supported in xorg, (c) everything I read about the E5300 CPU said
it had very good price/performance ratio and overclocking it someday
sounded like a fun project.  So basically I bought that and the first
G45 board I found that had onboard graphics (this is the distinction
between G45 and P45 which doesn't), three SATA ports and was made by
someone I'd heard of.  It's the Asus P5Q-EM, and it apparently also is
a good one for overclocking.

After putting it all together, I found that it didn't work.  Important
lesson here: for 'market segmentation' reasons - and I was certainly
pretty cut up about it, though that may be not the kind of
segmentation they mean - Intel only implement the necessary VT bits
on CPUs that cost north of £100, not on the cheap and lovely E5x00
series even though they have the (arguably equally "enterprise niche")
64 bit support.  So, gah.  So I ended up with an E8200 as well, and a
spare cpu+fan that is probably going on Ebay soon.

h2. This walk is made for booting

KVM now runs, which is a start.  Note that you need the @kvm@ module
 *and* the @kvm-intel@ module, or it will complain that you have no CPU
support. You may also have to fiddle with your bios settings, although
I didn't.

To convert a Xen disk image into an image that kvm understands is
still a bit fiddly: in brief, xen images are filesystem (= partition)
images, whereas kvm wants entire disks and they need to be bootable
(i.e. contain grub and a kernel).  Here's how I did it, prefaced by
the obligatory "it worked for me, but it's not my fault if it
doesn't for you.  Back up first" caveat

Obligatory caveat: it worked for me, but it's not my fault if it
doesn't for you.  Back up first.

1) Identify your disk image.  On a Debian box it will be in some place
like @/usr/local/lib/xen/domains/vitrual.4a.telent.net/disk.img@

<pre>
# cd /usr/local/lib/xen/domains/no.stargreen.com
# file disk.img 
disk.img: Linux rev 1.0 ext3 filesystem data, UUID=e6143cef-c3ed-4c21-94d9-32d4ba186910 (large files)
# ls -l disk.img 
-rw-r--r-- 1 root staff 4294967296 2009-06-03 14:33 disk.img
</pre>
Looking promising.  So let's create a qemu image.

<pre>
# dd if=/dev/zero of=mbr bs=8225280 count=1
# cat mbr disk.img mbr | cp --sparse=always /dev/stdin qemudisk.raw
</pre>
Why these numbers?  It's a throwback to ancient technology: ye olde PC
accessed disks using cylinder/head/sector technology, and the upper
bounds on each bit are 16383, 16, 63.  In my testing, KVM ignores the
CHS settings in the disk image and assumes  16 heads/63 sectors, so
we're going to make it easy for ourselves by adopting that
geometry ourselves, and since this makes each cylinder 8225280 bytes
long we'll stick that much blank space on the front of the image for
MBR/partition table/etc so the first partition is at cylinder 1

And the additional space on the end?  In my first few attempts I ran
into trouble with @e2fsck@ complaining that the filesystem was bigger
than the disk image.  This is, of course, impossible, and I imagine
was due to some kind of rounding error, but padding it out this way is
easier than investigating.

The @sparse@ flag to @cp@ might save us a bit of disk space if we have
any great big expanses of zero in the image.  Mine didn't, as it
turned out, but YMMV.

Next up, partitioning.  @sfdisk@ accepts input on stdin and uses it to
destroy your data, which makes it in some ways the perfect
Unix-philosophy tool.  GNU Parted will never give you this kind of
buzz, so be very careful here.

<pre> 
 # echo '1' | sfdisk qemudisk.raw  # DO NOT MISTYPE THIS
 # sfdisk -l qemudisk.raw 
 Disk qemudisk.raw: cannot get geometry

 Disk qemudisk.raw: 524 cylinders, 255 heads, 63 sectors/track
 Units = cylinders of 8225280 bytes, blocks of 1024 bytes, counting from 0

   Device Boot Start     End   #cyls    #blocks   Id  System
 qemudisk.raw1          1     523     523    4200997+  83  Linux
 qemudisk.raw2          0       -       0          0    0  Empty
 qemudisk.raw3          0       -       0          0    0  Empty
 qemudisk.raw4          0       -       0          0    0  Empty
</pre>

At this point if you have a rescue cd image or something you could
start kvm and have a poke around. 

<pre>
 # kvm -hda /usr/local/lib/xen/domains/no.stargreen.com/qemudisk.raw
   -cdrom trinity-rescue-kit.3.1-build-210.iso -boot d
</pre>
But you still can't boot the hd image directly, because there's no
bootloader.  So let's fix that next.  Note that your exact kernel
package name may not be the same as mine.

<pre>
 # mount qemudisk.raw /mnt -t ext2 -o loop,offset=8225280
 # chroot /mnt apt-get update
 # chroot /mnt apt-get linux-image-2.6.26-2-amd64 grub  
 # mkdir -p /mnt/boot/grub
 # cp /mnt/usr/lib/grub/x86_64-pc/* /mnt/boot/grub/
 # cat | grub --device-map=/dev/null
 device (hd0) qemudisk.raw 
 root (hd0,0)
 setup (hd0)
 # cat > /mnt/boot/grub/menu.lst
 title           Debian GNU/Linux, kernel 2.6.26-2-amd64
 root            (hd0,0)
 kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.26-2-amd64 root=/dev/hda1 
 initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.26-2-amd64
</pre>

apt-get may complain about having no initrd set up and ask if you want
to to abort.  I said "no", which works for me.  We install grub by
hand because @grub-install@ doesn't work so well in this situation.
Obviously you will need to muck about with pathnames in my minimal
menu.lst if your system is not quite like mine.

That's basically it as far as getting a bootable image is concerned.
You can start kvm with this image: I would probably suggest running
@update-grub@ inside it to replace this minimal config with all the
Debian grub goodness

h2. Take me to the bridge: networking

The kvm networking default is 'user' networking, which is in summary
dead convenient if all you want to do in the virtual host is run
clients, but a little bit slow and a little bit weird.  If you want to
run servers on your kvm instance, you will probably instead want to bridge its
network with your real host so the outside world can see it.  

I previously had a statically addressed eth0, now I have a statically
addressed br0 which bridges that and a couple of tap devices (you will
need one per kvm virtual host).  The necessary debs are
@bridge-utils@ and @vde2@, and your @/etc/network/interfaces@ stanza,
on the real host, is something like this

<pre>
 # The primary network interface
iface br0 inet static
    address 192.168.1.2
    netmask 255.255.255.0
    gateway 192.168.1.1
    pre-up /usr/bin/vde_tunctl -u www-data -t tap0
    pre-up /usr/bin/vde_tunctl -u www-data -t tap1
    pre-up ifconfig tap0 up
    pre-up ifconfig tap1 up
    bridge_ports all tap0 tap1
    post-down ifconfig tap0 down
    post-down ifconfig tap1 down
    post-down tunctl -d tap0 tap1
</pre>

and then I start kvm with 

<pre>
 # kvm -hda qemudisk.raw -net nic -net tap,ifname=tap0,script=no
</pre>

And there it is.  Write yourself some fancy startup scripts: I invoke
kvm with -daemonize and -vnc options so that it doesn't need to open a
window, but there are plenty of different ways to do that.  You will
probably want to play with other options too: for example to change
the kvm instances ram allocations or to give them a second disk image
suitable for swapping on.  If you have lots of kvm instances all
running at once you should maybe also look into VDE networking rather
than the tun/tap devices, but I haven't spent the time to work that
out yet.

If you go googling to solve your own problems: you probably know this already ,but it bears repeating: KVM is in some sense a fork/branch/derivative of QEMU, and the two systems have largely or maybe even entirely common code in this area.  So a lot of what you see about qemu booting is directly applicable to kvm too.

If you found this useful, feel free to get in touch.  If I've left
any step out, tell me that too and I'll edit it.
