title: Streaming XHR with Ruby and Mongrel
author: Daniel Barlow
date: Wed, 13 Jan 2010 10:56:29 -0000

An entirely pun-free post title today, and still it sounds like something you'd see a vet about.  Hey ho.

Suppose you are writing a web app in which the server needs to update the client when things change, and you don't want to do it by polling.  It turns out there is a technique for this that is probably more than two years old: you make the client do an XMLHttpRequest (aside: that name is almost as bad as its capitalization) to the server, and then the server sends its response v e r y &nbsp; s l o w l y.  The clients XmLhTtPReQuEst object will get an onreadystatechange event every time a new packet arrives, and just has to pull the new data out of xhr.responseText and decide what to do with it.

Well, that's the theory.  There are a variety of more-or-less-documented bugs and pitfalls to do with browser compatibility, as there always are (google "Comet", there are lots of resources and none of them I have the personal experience to recommend), but the new wrinkle I observed when doing this yesterday was a quarter-of-a-second lag between the server sending and the client receiving.  Odd.  Ruby can't be _that_ slow, can it?

Wel, no,  it's not.  After monkeying with wget and netcat and wireshark and mostly failing to find out what was going on, I did
@ strace -e setsockopt ruby server.rb @ and connected to it, and lo, what should I find but that something in Ruby or something in Mongrel was setting the @TCP_CORK@ socket option

<pre>
setsockopt(5, SOL_TCP, TCP_CORK, [1], 4) = 0
</pre>

<dl>
<dt>       TCP_CORK (since Linux 2.2)</dt
<dd>              If set, don't send  out  partial  frames.   All  queued  partial
              frames  are sent when the option is cleared again.  This is use‐
              ful for prepending headers before calling  sendfile(2),  or  for
              throughput  optimization.   As currently implemented, there is a
              200 millisecond ceiling on the time for which output  is  corked
              by  TCP_CORK.   If  this ceiling is reached, then queued data is
              automatically transmitted.  This option  can  be  combined  with
              TCP_NODELAY  only since Linux 2.5.71.  This option should not be
              used in code intended to be portable.</dd></dl>



Now I don't know where it's being set - a cursory grep of the mongrel sources says probably not there, but it's simple enough to unset again.  So, here's one I made earlier.  Note that you can't use the 
@response.start@ method (or at least, I don't see how) - you have to reach a little deeper into Mongrel::HttpResponse
<pre>
class StatusHandler < Mongrel::HttpHandler
  def process(request, response)
    fh=nil
    response.status=200
    response.send_status(nil)
    response.header['Content-Type'] = "application/x-www-form-urlencoded"
    response.send_header
    # something inside Ruby or inside Mongrel is setting TCP_CORK,
    # which is bad for latency.  I suspect Ruby C code, because 
    # the interpreter complains there is no definition for Socket::TCP_CORK
    # <linux/tcp.h>:#define TCP_CORK 3 /* Never send partially complete segments */
    response.socket.setsockopt(Socket::SOL_TCP, 3, 0)
    response.socket.setsockopt(Socket::SOL_TCP, Socket::TCP_NODELAY, 1)
    response.write("# gubbins for webkit bug "+("." * 256)+ "\n");
    response.write("# stuff follows\n");

    300.times.each do
      response.write("stuff\n")
      response.socket.flush
      sleep 30
    end   
    response.done
  end  
end
</pre>

We limit the response to 300 lines in case of browser timeout or connection interruption or just to stop the client-side memory going up unboundedly as @responseText@ grows without let or limit.  It's simple for the javascript to kick off another handler when this one dies.

For completeness, here's some client-side code to go with it
<pre>
// XXX we made the_req global just so that we can look at 
// what's going on in firebug.  It's not required in normal use
var the_req;
function json_watch_stream(url,callback) {
    var req =new XMLHttpRequest();
    the_req = req;
    req.open("GET",url,true);
    req.last_seen=0;
    req.onreadystatechange = function() {
	if(req.responseText) {
	    callback(req.readyState,req.status,
		     req.responseText.substr(req.last_seen))
	    req.last_seen=req.responseText.length;
	}
    };
    req.send(null);
}
function json_start_status_receiver (){
    json_watch_stream
	('/status',
	 function(ready,status,text) {
	    if(ready==4) {
		// server response concluded, need to start again
		json_start_status_receiver ();
	    }
	    text.split("\n").map(function(line) {
		    if(!line) { return; };
		    var data=line.substr(1);
		    switch(line[0]) {
		    case '#': break;
		    case 'O': update_track_timer(data); break;
		    case 'P': update_track_number(data); break;
		    case 'S': stop_track_timer(); break;
		    default: 
			console.log("status stream: unrecognised flag ",
				    line[0],data);
		    }
		});
	});
}
</pre>