subject: Social notworking
date: Sun Sep 18 21:36:00 2011

After a bit over a month using Google Plus (with admittedly decreasing
enthusiasm over the course of that time) I have no firm conclusions
about what it's good for, except that it's incredibly good at
reminding me how much I miss Usenet.

I could compare it with the other networks that people consider it
"competition" for: it doesn't replace Facebook - for me anyway -
because the whole world isn't on it, and that means I can't use it to
stay in touch with friends and family.  It doesn't replace Twitter as
the the lack of a message length limit means it's useless for epigrams
(which I like) and not much cop for status updates either (which I can
live without) - though it does work as "source of interesting links"
which in my opinion is the third arm of Twitter utility.  And Google
will, probably, be disappointed to learn that it doesn't replace
LinkedIn be cause despite the best efforts of the 
"Real Names policy":http://boingboing.net/2011/08/20/understanding-the-nym-wars.html
enforcers, it still isn't quite boring enough. Yet, anyway.

But that's enough about Google+, what about Usenet? 

* The unit of discussion was an article.  Not a two-line throwaway
  comment or a single bit of "me likes this" information.  When you
  read something on Usenet that you felt strongly enough to reply to,
  you hit 'r', you got the scary warning about "hundreds if not
  thousands of dollars", and it dumped you in a full screen text
  editor where you could compose your pearl of wisdom.  Sure, so you
  could alternatively compose your "ME TOO!!!1!!", but it wasn't a
  teeny text widget which practically demands the latter response: the
  affordances were there for writing something with meat

* It was decentralised.  No capricious site owner could take your
  comment down because someone might find it offensive, or ban all
  discussion of certain topics, or refuse to allow you to post links
  to other places, or even that he was going to pull the plug
  completely and delete all your words.  You might be reading this and
  thinking 
 "Godfrey vs Demon":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Godfrey_v_Demon_Internet_Service
  and you'd be entirely correct that it wasn't completely uncensored
  in practice - nor, I contend, should it have been - but there was at
  least a *bit* more effort involved in getting a post removed than
  clicking the 'I am offended by this picture of a breast-feeding
  woman' button, and that made potential complainants think a bit more
  carefully about whether it was worth it

* It had user interfaces that didn't get in the way.  Really.  I could
  sit in front of my computer for _hours_ pressing only the space bar
  (maybe alternating with the 'n' key in less interesting groups) and
  it would keep the content coming.  (And I did.  I would blame my
  degree class on Usenet, if it weren't that the time I spent
  "fiddling with Linux":http://ftp.armedslack.org/slackware/slackware-3.1/docs/ELF-HOWTO
  was in itself sufficient to leave approximately 0 time for studying.  But i digress.)

The reasons it's dead are well-rehearsed, and boil down to this: it
couldn't cope with universal access.  It was built back in the days
when people had access through their institutions or employers,
and for the most part knew they could lose it by acting like jerks -
or at least by acting like jerks consistently enough and outrageously
enough.  Come the personal internet revolution - the Endless September
- it had no protection against or meaningful sanctions for spammers
and trolls, and so blogs/web forums sucked away most of the people who
wanted to just talk, leaving behind people who were by and large too
much concerned with the minutiae of meta and much less enthused about
the actual posting of content.

But it did do stuff that nobody else has replicated since.  

Other people:

* "Why we don't have an NNTP back end for web forums":http://reddragdiva.dreamwidth.org/566555.html

* James Adam "on commenting":http://interblah.net/on-commenting
