date: Wed May 11 16:56:25 2011
subject: Testing a monolithic app - how not to

In the process of redesiging the interfaces to
"thin-prefork":http://ww.telent.net/2011/5/3/preforking_multi_process_sinatra_serving_with_sequel,
I thought that if it's going to be a design not a doodle I'd try to do
it the TDD way and add some of that rspec goodness.

I'm not so proud of "what I ended up with":https://github.com/telent/thin-prefork/blob/979ed708ace626cd2337ed61892fb3d84db3dcdc/spec/prefork_spec.rb 

There are a number of issues with this code that are all kind of
overlapped and linked with each other, and this post is, unless it
sits as a draft for considerably longer than I intended to spend on
it, going to be kind of inchoate because all I really plan to do is
list them in the order they occur to me.

* The first and most obvious hurdle is that once you call @#run!@, the
  server process and its kids go off and don't come back: in
  real-world use, any interaction you might have with it after that is
  driven by external events (such as signals).  In testing, we have to
  control the external environment of the server to give it the right
  stimuli at the right time, then we need some way to look inside it
  and see how it reacts.  So we fork and run it in a child process.
  (Just to remind you, thin-prefork is a forking server, so we now
  have a parent and a child and some grandchildren.)  This is messy
  already and leads to heuristics and potential race conditions: for
  example, there is a @sleep 2@ after the fork, which we hope is long
  enough for it to be ready after we fork it, but is sure to fail
  somewhere and to be annoyingly and unnecessarily long somewhere else
  especially as the number of tests grows.

* We make some effort to kill the server off if tests fail, but it's
  not robust: if the interpreter dies, for example, we may end up with
  random grandchild processes lying around and listening to TCP ports,
  and that means that future runs fail too.  

* Binding a socket to a particular interface is (in Unix-land) pretty
  portable.  Determining what interfaces are available to bind to,
  less so.  I rely on there most likely being a working loopback and
  hope that there is additionally another interface on which packets
  to github.com can be routed.  I'm sure that's not always true, but
  it;'ll have to do for now. (Once again I am indebted to coderr's
  neat trick for "getting the local IP
  address":http://coderrr.wordpress.com/2008/05/28/get-your-local-ip-address/
  - and no, @gethostbyname(gethostname())@ doesn't work on a mobile or
  a badly-configured system where the hostname may be an alias for
  127.0.0.1 in @/etc/hosts/)

* We need the test stanzas (running in the parent code) somehow to run
  arbitrary methods on the server object (which exists in the child).
  I know, we'll make our helper method @start@ accept a block install
  and install another signal handler in the child which @yield@s to
  it.  Ugh

* We needed a way to determine whether child processes have run the
  correct code for the commands we're testing them.  Best idea I came
  up with was to have the command implementation and hook code set
  global variables, then do HTTP requests to the children which serve
  the value of those global variables.  I'm sort of pleased with this.
  In a way.

Overall I *think* the process has been useful, but the end result
feels brittle, it's taken nearly as long as the code did to write, and
it's still not giving me the confidence to refactor (or indeed to
rewrite) blindly that all the TDD/BDD advocates promote as the raison
d'embêter

The brighter news is, perhaps, that I'm a lot more comfortable about
the hook/event protocol this time round.  There are still bits that
need filling in, but have a look at
"Thin::Prefork::Worker::Lifecycle":https://github.com/telent/thin-prefork/blob/topic/refactor-worker/20110505/lib/thin/prefork/worker.rb
and @module TestKidHooks@ for the worker lifecycle hooks, and then at
the modules with names starting @Test...@ for the nucleus of how to
add a custom command.

